( division 68 ) 
so , poverty is also expressed in terms of increased demand on the food banks . 
Mr. Bob Speller : 
Mr. Mulroney was personally demonized and our patriotism was questioned . 
members 
i suggest that if the hon. chief opposition whip would like to know who voted every time , when the House adjourns Hansard will be printed which will list everything . 
i urge the environment minister to , at the least , visit the site , talk to the concerned citizens and appreciate firsthand how important it is . 
following the publication of the supreme court decision , the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada said , and I quote : 
they were called Pawnee . 
Mr. Odina Desrochers 
people WITH DISABILITIES 
Ms. Susan Whelan 
that is something the Government of Canada has been promoting very strongly . 
religious Freedom in China in Relation to United Nations International Covenants 
this is what the Supreme Court of Canada said and it only makes sense . 
* * * 
it was recommended by the Law Reform Commission in its report in 1983 . 
presence IN GALLERY 
i will now put that question . 
Mr. Speaker , in order to allow Telefilm Canada to regain its credibility , what it the Minister of Canadian Heritage waiting for to ask the auditor general to shed light on a case where the actions of a minority are detrimental to the whole television industry ? 
hon. Herb Gray 
i would like to see democracy reflected in bills such as Bill C - 10 but it is not reflected . 
we already know that the legislation will have to be changed or amended accordingly . 
in the last eight years there has been an amazing erosion of legislative support for traditional marriage , and this in spite of the fact that there is overwhelming evidence showing the benefits of traditional marriage to children , adults and society . 
Mr. Speaker , I know the farmers in the affected areas will be pleased with the announcement the Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food made in the House today . 
in this case , there are only 13 , so we should be able to go through them fairly quickly . 
Mr. Speaker , first , I would like to thank the hon. member for the way in which he mesmerized his colleagues on this occasion . 
( official Version ) 
it is clear that this matter has received a lot of thought from a lot of Canadians . 
however , if a particular standing committee , such as the Standing Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry or another committee , wants to examine the estimates for the Department of Agriculture or whatever , there is no problem . 
with competitions designed to build a spirit of community and to increase civic pride , Communities in Bloom has popularized environmental awareness and heritage conservation . 
Mr. Rick Borotsik 
new Democrats were very strong on making this amendment and we are hoping the government will support this aspect of the bill . 
i think it is a sad state of affairs when senators themselves do not even have confidence in the work they do to hold up their institution to public attention . 
will the member join with us in supporting the rights of British Columbians and their demand to have a referendum on this ? 
Mr. Lee Morrison ( Cypress Hills - Grasslands , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Speaker , Friday , just as her parliamentary secretary was telling the House that , in the case of the audiovisual production affair , the RCMP must be allowed to do its job without any interference , the Minister of Canadian Heritage was saying outside the House that a major administrative investigation had been launched into Telefilm Canada and production tax credits , as the Bloc Quebecois has been demanding since the beginning of this affair . 
paired 
members 
offenders are often sent to prison when other measures could have been better for them and , in particular , could have protected society better . 
at this point there seems to be no way in which society can deal with these youth . 
the Progressive Conservative member from Shefford , Quebec , introduced such a motion in the other place last session . 
the government is trying to pass legislation to intrude into provincial jurisdictions , and is using this document to try to make us believe that this is the Canadian way . 
we have not agreed with the opposition on the appointment of returning officers . 
it must be remembered that the MIR station was expected to last about five years , but was in service for over ten . 
we are about 10 short , which is well above the 10 % the commissioner sometimes talks about . 
that ended when I read this morning ' s Ottawa Citizen . 
finally , Madam Speaker , one of the other major concerns expressed by the opposition was that somehow the citizenship that would be applied to the Nisga ' a lands is a race - based citizenship . 
i was trying to encourage this government to think about it . 
hon. David Anderson ( Minister of the Environment , Lib . ) : 
it will provide protection for personal health information it has collected , used and disclosed in the course of commercial activities . 
he will have to infer from the facts his own sense . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
members 
Mr. Speaker , it is a long question and much to cover . 
they routinely occur in many parts of the world today . 
so far he has been extremely evasive about specifying the formula for compensation based on fair market value and lost investment revenue . 
this , as members can imagine , led to numerous legal proceedings . 
we have to try to improve access to training . 
we may be building greater problems for our future . 
Mr. Pierre Brien ( T é miscamingue , BQ ) : 
in conclusion , I would like to pay tribute to Debbie Neepoose , Greg Twoyoungmen , Roy Littlechief , Edwin One Owl , Yolande Redcalf , Eva Pitt , Anna McLeod , Laura Deedza , Floyd Minifingers , John Chiefmoon and especially Leona Freed . 
at this international conference in New Delhi , India , we focused on the democratic deficit resulting from the low representation of half of the population - that is , women - in the Parliaments of most of the world governments . 
if the infringement of the rights and freedoms of these groups is permitted to persist while governments fail to pursue equality diligently , then the guarantees of the Charter will be reduced to little more than empty words . 
there are a number of options to correct the decision made by the Province of Ontario regarding bilingualism in the national capital . 
as it turned out , the employee said that they were very disappointed in the Prime Minister and the agricultural minister for using these stats since they dated back to 1997 and obviously had nothing to do with today ' s crisis . 
where is the expenditure management program that was once in place ? 
the number of women in this chamber and elsewhere is a source of encouragement to me . 
almost two years later a report was filed . 
is that true , yes or no ? 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 27 , be amended by replacing lines 7 and 8 on page 10 with the following : 
motion No. 89 negatived 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator DeWare for bringing those comments to the floor of this chamber . 
medical Decisions Facilitation Bill 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
witnesses have to be sponsored by a party , and there is a limit on the number of individuals or groups who can come and testify here . 
men and women across the country in communities from Gander to Victoria to Resolute Bay have come to recognize our diversity as a source of national strength , inspiration and pride . 
miss Deborah Grey 
in 1993 Canadians were suffering under a bloated and arrogant government , one devoid of any new ideas and fundamentally out of touch with the electorate . 
Eurasia and North America are just 50 miles apart at this point and almost touch each other like two fingers reaching out . 
this is a definite loophole , one which I fear the governing party would exploit to its own unfair advantage . 
Mr. Gilles - A . 
these motions basically mean that private groups must disclose , without consent , personal information on citizens to government and law enforcement agencies when they are requested to do so for investigative purposes in the interest of national security . 
surely there is no one here who is proud of the old treaty system or how it was arrived at , if we study how those treaties were arrived at . 
i agree with him in terms of the issue he raised and in terms of its substance . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough 
statistically speaking , these 37 projects represent almost 2,400 problematic cases . 
when my colleagues and I came to the House we thought we would change things faster than we have . 
i think that ' s a pretty fair statement of the situation in the real world '' . 
Ms. Jocelyne Girard - Bujold 
did the impossibility of serving the Senate and aspiring for a place in the House of Commons place him in a conflict role and cause confusion ? 
Mr. Speaker , the hon. member ' s riding is receiving money . 
they should be listed clearly , definitively and separately from everyone else . 
to my knowledge - and I may be wrong - this legislation was supported by the Reform Party . 
bill C - 6 
hon. Alfonso Gagliano : 
Mr. Speaker , I acknowledge the member ' s interest and advocacy on behalf of his riding . 
no , I never said that . 
the abandonment of American leadership on the issue of nuclear non - proliferation is a distressing development in the already challenging struggle to achieve a universal commitment to non - proliferation . 
we will ask that this be specified . 
oh , oh . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl 
the Speaker : 
they want to take the money away from the taxpayers in the form of taxation and give it to themselves for their own election campaigns . 
( division 668 ) 
i realize , however , that some recidivists should get harsher sentences , but the Criminal Code already provides a 14 - year prison term in such cases . 
this is one thing that limits the influence of big money . 
to consider the 1760 document valid is to assume that he carried out his general and usual duties with the approval of the Crown and the British people . 
division No. 334 
( the House divided on Motion No. 471 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
members 
the Deputy Speaker : 
are they going to ignore the will of British Columbians , the people who elected them ? 
we see opportunities for Canadians to participate in exporting our cultural products and with them our values and our sense of what we are about ourselves . 
i hope that you , Mr. Speaker , and every member of the House will plan on going to see this very important exhibit . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 27 , be amended by replacing line 6 on page 10 with the following : 
probably members of parliament , more than most people , need counselling and help in coping with everyday life . 
again , this , in my opinion , is the thrust of the debate . 
there is also a setback regarding the collection of information from a third party . 
i believe that he reviewed these contracts in some detail and felt that the appropriate guidelines were not observed in every case . 
agriculture and Agri - Food 
members 
we could go into a place with 20 drywallers working in a big area and each one of them would consider themselves to be independent business . 
at that time I was again cheated of the opportunity to learn at the feet of the master . 
i managed on short notice to obtain an English translation of the November 15 press release from the Quebec Coalition of Bulk Carriers and Related Business . 
i will make a few remarks on the issue now and suggest that , when I finish , a colleague may wish simply to adjourn the debate . 
the whole concept of Falun Gong practitioners must be reviewed . 
Mr. Dan McTeague ( Pickering - Ajax - Uxbridge , Lib . ) moved for leave to introduce Bill C - 202 , an act to amend the Criminal Code ( flight ) . 
bill read first time . 
how will this help all Canadians including those from Windsor and Essex county ? 
women are penalized by the employment insurance reform . 
i have one more item to talk about which relates to Bill C - 4 . 
Mr. Speaker , this is my second opportunity to engage in this debate . 
he may have come forward with those figures but we came forward in the end with $ 1.1 billion four times . 
more people were killed in that war than in all of the wars in the Middle East since the beginning of the century , all over a few miles of sand . 
i am sorry to interrupt the hon. member , but we must now proceed to Oral Question Period . 
senator Austin : 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the measures concerning third parties are based on three major principles . 
my friend knows that the co - op to which Senator Buchanan referred is seeking only to get one of those assets , namely the Donkin property . 
as I said , the Bloc Quebecois supports the bill before us today , despite the fact it lacks clear direction and does not provide for consultations with the provinces and various stakeholders . 
we are not in that situation as we have seen by going to the supreme court on the Marshall decision . 
on a systemic level , governance is an important contributing factor to a properly performing market and investment system which , in turn , has an important impact on the wealth creation process in the Canadian economy as a whole . 
points OF ORDER 
unfortunately , I did not hear the earlier presentation of the petition , but I did hear what Senator Kinsella just said . 
this cost has to be tallied in the houses of government by the democratically elected people who make these decisions . 
each time this occurs it makes me proud . 
as a matter of fact , I remember my old Liberal friend , who was not long ago the premier of Nova Scotia , describe the situation in Cape Breton as an economic crisis . 
the only official language of the parliament of the time was English . 
concerns on the siting and size parameters necessary to protect and conserve marine biological diversity in national marine conservation areas remain unanswered . 
that in my mind reflects on a very specific wish to make the question somewhat cloudy . 
Mr. Derrek Konrad 
yeas 
as a matter of fact your visit is quite timely because I have a story to tell you '' . 
we are grown up enough in the country to stop the practice of the Prime Minister toying around with the electorate for the clear advantage of the ruling party by requiring in the future that byelections be held within six months of vacancies arising in the House . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 7 , be amended by replacing lines 41 and 42 on page 3 with the following : 
Mr. Speaker , I am not trying to hide anything . 
that funding is in addition to the $ 1 billion the federal and provincial governments contribute each year to the safety net programs , including crop insurance and the net income stabilization account which cushion farmers during difficult times , and those programs which invest in marketing research and other initiatives which serve to strengthen the sector . 
i have said time and time again that members should read all of the Nisga ' a final agreement . 
i suppose the first question to be asked is exactly what does the Canadian tourism commission do and why does it need to be a crown corporation . 
adjournment 
Mr. Speaker , following the introduction by the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs of a bill denying the fundamental rights of Quebecers , I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to table this document , which will no doubt enlighten it . 
we lived in a small university apartment on the Halifax waterfront , with no telephone because we could not afford one . 
motion No. 150 negatived 
Mr. Inky Mark 
does the member agree with the government when it makes those statements ? 
i will now put the motions in Group No. 2 to the House . 
after slashing transfers to the provinces for post - secondary education , the current government has taken some baby steps to make it up in small part to Canadian students . 
as I said before , they were the words of a Mr. Rean Meyer , President of the Heraldry Society of Canada , British Columbia Yukon Branch . 
it has to recognize and respond to the rapid rate of change . 
that display of heroism in the face of this unexpected tragedy reminds us of the good in each of us . 
this problem is not isolated to this particular case . 
Mr. Andr é Harvey ( Chicoutimi , PC ) moved for leave to introduce Bill C - 397 , an act to change the name of the electoral district of Chicoutimi . 
this will put more guns , illegal and otherwise , on the black market . 
parenting education programs are not new but classes tailored to the specific needs of divorcing families are a relevant recent phenomenon in Canada and the U.S. 
let them feed their families . 
it is clear and quite simple . 
i have witnessed first hand the pain , discouragement and financial suffering of victims of hepatitis C in my riding . 
the Prime Minister is clearly unaware of the impressions and the questions he is generating among taxpayers because of the HRD billion dollar bungle . 
what I also said was that the Indian Act is silent on women ' s rights and it is an issue we will be dealing with . 
how can we get the message to people in the cities to recognize this problem and assist us in the solution ? 
how about Bill C - 110 ? 
honourable senators , I have the honour to table , in both official languages , the report of the 29 th annual meeting of the Canadian group of the Canada - France Inter - Parliamentary Association , held from September 8 to September 15 , 1999 in Montreal , Laval , Ottawa , Vancouver and Victoria . 
the hon. Minister of Human Resources Development . 
the hon. member for Okanagan - Shuswap on a point of order . 
honourable senators , I also question the need for Bill C - 247 , given the changes to the Criminal Code in 1996 regarding high - risk offenders . 
but how does he explain that it kept no tabs at all on a $ 500,000 grant to Wal - Mart for several months ? 
yet , absolutely unbelievable cuts were made to transfers to the provinces for health care . 
No. 
that did not come from the Reform Party . 
Mr. Speaker , that question is totally strange , because , as I said , we worked with GM to save jobs at Boisbriand . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 408 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Speaker , that would be a great new story again except for the fact that according to the terms and conditions she cannot delegate that authority . 
the important thing to remember here is the maxim of the wisest of common law legal philosophers , Jeremy Bentham . 
who should be saved , the baby or the mother ? 
Mr. Speaker , it is my pleasure to rise in the House today to speak about people , plants and pride , the slogan of Communities in Bloom , an organization which seeks to provide a national focus for established provincial and community based beautification programs across Canada . 
honourable senators , I thank the honourable senator for the question . 
it would be a lot less expensive , a lot less costly to elect the nine supreme court justices and to ask them , as they have the monopoly of truth , to legislate as they see fit , which might not always be how the people really want it . 
that left 16 days for a company , an investor , a group of investors or consortiums to come up with a package involving $ 6 billion . 
to ram through the Nisga ' a treaty in Parliament may be to unravel the Supreme Court of Canada initiative undertaken by the federal government in the case of Quebec secession . 
we have heard in the media and in the House about the projects that have been approved across the country , how they have benefited the various ridings . 
while I raise these concerns about the current drafting of the bill , I want to emphasize that New Democrats will go into the committee stage with open minds . 
her presence here today tells us how far we have come as a nation . 
objections to this bill will come from those who fear that it is but the thin edge of the wedge which in time will lead to the end of the ceremonial as we know it today . 
motion No. 117 negatived 
i met the government negotiators in this particular case and I was impressed by their dedication , their hard work and their open mindedness . 
senator Lynch - Staunton : 
Mr. Speaker , I do not know what memo the member is referring to . 
a member of the opposition says there is too much bureaucracy . 
the problem with this is that it has given some people the false sense that all first nations are poorly managed , when in fact many first nations manage themselves extremely well . 
Canadians are justifiably proud of having built communities where citizens feel safe . 
they are asking if they will be able to fish next spring . 
to conclude my comments today , Bill C - 9 does nothing to repair the damage caused by the 100 plus years of the reserve system . 
it did not protect northern regions . 
it is part of the constitution . 
Mr. Gordon Earle : 
volume 138 , Issue 15 
we had to deal first with a $ 42 billion deficit . 
i would ask the hon. member for Langley - Abbotsford , in respect for the House , to wear his jacket . 
i do not feel that the Liberal government supports tourist operators , especially those who are small business owners and employees . 
members 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron : 
Mr. John Cannis : 
Mr. Jay Hill ( Prince George - Peace River , Ref. ) : 
i listened with much interest to the speech by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Justice - I find it all odd that the minister did not come to the House to defend the bill herself at second reading , instead of her parliamentary secretary - but I think he has failed to grasp the problem . 
it puts into practice the values of Canadians from coast to coast to coast . 
Mr. Speaker , I thank the hon. member for her question . 
they have the legal right to get married and to raise children . 
budget SURPLUS 
some hon. members : 
and it is the president of the Chambre des notaires who is speaking . 
some members suggested we might look at that together . 
why is the Prime Minister stoking the fires of separatism ? 
how does this hurt Canadian families , Canadian entrepreneurs and Canadian investors ? 
powers of clemency rightfully belong with the clemency granting agencies . 
they knew who was the Prime Minister . 
just wait on Bill C - 9 . 
the Government of Canada has the mandate under the constitution to enter into treaties of this nature . 
while there can be levels of services , common initiatives and exchanges in that area , there is no need for a superstructure such as the Canadian tourism commission , which will get involved in jurisdictions where Quebec is already very active . 
petitioners from the Grand Bend , Lucan and Strathroy areas have signed the said petition . 
some would like not to be held accountable , but our whole system of parliamentary democracy is based upon the principle of ministerial accountability . 
in the meantime we are working on a process that will accommodate both commercial and native fisheries for years to come . 
in the particular case of the Nisga ' a agreement , we have a form of government that is apart from all other governments . 
DEVCO 
i am truly saddened that the minister has chosen to ignore the needs of our farm communities . 
national UNITY 
we have this crisis in agriculture . 
however , in a case like this one where the minister ' s practices are in question an ethics committee would be a logical tool in establishing the realities of the situation . 
No. 
Mr. Keith Martin ( Esquimalt - Juan de Fuca , Ref. ) : 
* * * 
hon. Jane Stewart 
i see no reason to digress from that at this point . 
i declare Motion No. 28 lost . 
nays 
canada ' s post - secondary institutions have been struggling to do more and more with less and less . 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
her appeals to the military were met with scepticism . 
members 
it concerns whether the situation to which I refer creates a conflict of interest . 
later on that year , when faced with miners who wanted to open Donkin mine , who wanted some kind of assurance from the government as to a plan for Devco , the former member of parliament for Cape Breton - East Richmond said , " There are no rabbits in the hat , boys . 
* * * 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
this bill is almost racist . 
the Speaker : 
they certainly deserve protection and they have received it . 
i think the government was right in putting it to a legislative committee , because clearly there was no other standing committee that could possibly have the jurisdiction over a question like this . 
introduction and first reading 
we believe that passing legislation to ensure swift implementation of the new provisions will save lives . 
members 
that is why our programs are focused on working with Canadians to ensure that . 
they reflect the fact that we have allowed the capability of our forces to decline to the point where longer - term effectiveness has been put in jeopardy . 
Mr. John Nunziata 
this is one clear indication of our commitment to try to promote democratic reform in that country . 
we will provide them with career information and access to work experience and learning . 
however , the past has taught us , all too well , the pressing need for such legislation . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
motion No. 33 
that the Standing Senate Committee on Fisheries be empowered to permit coverage by electronic media of its public proceedings with the least possible disruption of its hearings . 
clause 4 states : 
it appears to be wholeheartedly in favour of embracing the agenda of the multinationals . 
i believe he is wandering about taking pictures . 
if someone is employed somewhere in a routine , basic day job and decides to nail a couple of 2 x 4 s together in the campaign office in the evening , that is fine , there is no problem . 
the principal checked and she had not shown up for school . 
the bill speaks to a contemporary , professional public service that we are fortunate to have here in Canada . 
i am referring to caring , compassionate individuals who unselfishly donate their time , their energy , their skills and often financial support to support worthy community endeavours . 
they are well taken . 
however , it is a quasi judicial , independent body and we will not interfere with its process . 
i have no agreement to entertain the motion to defer until tomorrow . 
members 
bill S - 2 attempts both to provide a defence for health care providers accused of murder and to advocate the need for palliative care reform . 
it does not involve , as some have implied , a cash transfer of a half billion dollars . 
tax reduction is a key component of a strategy to increase individual incomes and to ensure an economy that produces the growth and wealth which enable those public and private investments necessary for a high quality of life . 
senator Cools : 
i told him ten years . 
it being 5.30 p.m. , the House will not proceed to the consideration of Private Members ' Business as listed on today ' s order paper . 
i congratulate my colleague the member for Wentworth - Burlington for his creativity and insight in bringing forward this motion . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 35 , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
( the House divided on Motion No. 164 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe ( Laurier - Sainte - Marie , BQ ) : 
in some cases they are triple of what they were at that time . 
the announcement made by the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Public Works and Government Services in December to build more homeless shelters was a start . 
it takes a huge amount of determination and hard work '' . 
all this is very subjective , especially 20 years after the person has died . 
hon. David M. Collenette : 
Mr. Gilles Bernier ( Tobique - Mactaquac , PC ) : 
hon. Jean - Claude Rivest : 
it is time to act , because Canada is becoming increasingly globalized internationally . 
the bill creates a tourist commission that already exists and will somehow create a crown corporation . 
is this not another example of Ottawa knows best ? 
Mrs. Monique Guay 
the Speaker : 
the Speaker : 
Mr. Paul Mercier ( Terrebonne - Blainville , BQ ) : 
that is the danger . 
canada and the world know that development will be at the heart of the next round of negotiations . 
this is a Reform MP ' s comments on aboriginal people . 
table of Contents 
i have many things that I would like to say about first nations , not the least of which is that the government has an undemocratic approach to anything to do with first nations . 
when we have in a government a culture of gross mismanagement which is ignored , which is then covered up , which is then denied and minimized , then there is something very wrong in the whole administration of the government . 
i am not sure I have the numbers right but if my memory serves me correctly , I believe that in total the Liberal government had in the 1997 election a spending limit of around $ 30 million . 
i know that his department is very active there , but could the secretary of state tell us about some of the things his office is doing in the great province of Saskatchewan ? 
when I became a member of the House I never imagined for a moment that one day I would be reproached for caring too much about the fundamental component of democracy . 
in fact she was spending about $ 4,000 a month participating in these various fundraising efforts , all for various kinds of prizes . 
the amount of money that will actually come out of the system from Ottawa to Nova Scotia and the other provinces in the Atlantic region is not even as much money as these provinces received last year . 
if the member for Wentworth - Burlington would dig into the short path , he would clearly see that there have been hidden agendas in other bills that have come before the House . 
i am thinking of Montreal , for example , and cities like Toulouse , where the aeronautical and chemical industries played a key role in the city ' s development , or Boston , with its technological institute . 
senator Hays : 
Mr. Mark Muise 
the Standing Senate Committee on Transport and Communications has the honour to present its 
the answer is to bring down the government ' s sky - high taxes . 
for some countries , like Canada and most countries with a British style parliamentary system , treaties are concluded , and the countries agree to be bound by the provisions in them , such as in the one creating the international space station , without parliament ' s involvement . 
it is up to the older generations of our society to encourage the newer generations to remember . 
if he was up to date , he would know that he was wrong about the Reform Party policy . 
some of my colleagues at the local municipal government level will ask me when I am back in the riding if the federal government has any understanding of the fact that they are neighbours with other individuals and other municipalities . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
eight out of ten files reviewed did not show evidence of financial monitoring , and 87 % of project files showed no evidence of supervision . 
by the time they are done , around mid - March , my colleagues will have conducted over 60 small townhall meetings scattered across western Canada . 
members 
they do not want to be on unemployment . 
division No. 514 
i believe that the fact of having to publish the full rationality behind polls conducted will prevent , obviously , in the context of a regular election campaign , the publication of certain polls intended strictly to serve partisan purposes and to manipulate the very democratic action people are called on to take from time to time , namely vote in all good conscience . 
i want to say to all Canadians , especially our youth as we move into the 21 st century , we must never forget . 
the court held that the statement of claim was valid as it related to the issue of the two governments making it impossible to bargain in good faith because they had already reached agreement with the Nisga ' a . 
as we do this , the government remains committed , as opposed to the opposition party , to upholding the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms ; not just for some , but for all . 
the new regime will apply to both domestic and international carriage of passengers by ship and , accordingly , will finally bring Canadian law in this field into line with that of most of our trading partners . 
hon. Herb Gray ( Deputy Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
members 
last week , I myself sent a letter to the minister , with no reply . 
i would have thought that would have been something the Reform Party would have welcomed and supported . 
because he does not know what it is to belong to a party that is guided by deep convictions instead of money , or to find a job for one ' s wife or one ' s children . 
another witness made this excellent point in committee . 
the time provided for Private Members ' Business has expired . 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
Mr. Speaker , first I want to thank my colleague from T é miscamingue for sharing his speaking time with me . 
Ms. Caroline St - Hilaire ( Longueuil , BQ ) : 
that is only one example . 
division No. 491 
i reject his initiative , and so do my constituents , outright . 
the Ontario government has decided to appeal the decision concerning the Montfort Hospital . 
i would like to see the pocket in my riding which is the highest . 
do not take it from me . 
farmers know that for them to be competitive Canada must provide them with levels of domestic support comparable to those provided by our trading competitors . 
Mr. Ted McWhinney : 
it would be clear to anyone who closely examines it that the Nisga ' a treaty works within the current framework of the Canadian constitution . 
the study I cited was quoted in the other place . 
if the government has nothing to hide , why does the minister not table today the complete Scotia Rainbow file if she has one ? 
that Bill C - 2 , in Clause 370 , be amended by replacing lines 2 to 5 on page 153 with the following : 
public inquiries are equipped with the best tools our legal system can furnish for pursuing the truth , but even with access to significant procedural powers , the goal may prove elusive . 
( division 308 ) 
* * * 
i cannot imagine the tolerance that lasted over 100 years . 
Ms. Raymonde Folco 
we can see there are many things that are similar to the mandate of the Canadian tourism commission . 
replacement of Sea King Helicopter Fleet - Possibility of Removing Troops from Troubled Areas 
these are penetrating statements of the obvious , yet it marks a shift in simply following the policies of a previous Conservative government and reaping the benefit of those visionary initiatives . 
... enormous centralized powers are more like those normally associated with an autocratic dictatorship than with a democratic government ... 
Mr. Speaker , the astonishment of the Premier of Quebec is a source of astonishment to us . 
this is a concrete measure that the government and parliamentarians will have to adopt some day if they are serious about learning from the past . 
it is the acts of violence that strike fear in the hearts of the elderly and the children who endure the harassment and brutality of a generation held unaccountable for its actions . 
clearly , when someone breaks the law and commits a heinous crime , it has to be dealt with swiftly , in a meaningful way as stated in the act and in some cases severely . 
the governor in council is the cabinet . 
Mr. Derek Lee 
Mr. Speaker , I want to assure the member and all members in the House that voting is a fundamental right of our democracy . 
the only country is Canada , the best place in the world in which to live , for everybody except farmers . 
a lot of that is coming right out of the pockets of farmers . 
* * * 
motion No. 61 
then , when the travel agents ' association wanted to meet with the airlines to discuss the rate structure , it was threatened with anti - competition charges under the Competition Act by the very same airline . 
why does the minister not just give Andy his Christmas bonus instead of the Christmas goose ? 
similarly the task of addressing the problem of youth crime requires a clear sense of purpose and values and the capacity to respond to the individual situations of each youth and his place in the community . 
again , I wonder if there is some way of augmenting this marriage counselling undertaking to give it more impact and force when children are involved . 
moreover , tax conventions contribute to the fairness of the tax system by ensuring that Canadians are not subject to double taxation , a situation that may arise when a taxpayer lives in a country but earns an income in another country . 
why are they not guaranteed seats on the board of directors of the Royal Bank of Canada , for example ? 
the taking of bodily substances always raises significant constitutional issues . 
Mr. Speaker , if the government would listen to Reform today , farmers would have the support they need . 
this event is put forth to recognize the importance of our children . 
my job is to build a strong foundation of administration to support the grants and contributions that are so valuable to Canadians . 
on motion of Senator Hervieux - Payette , report placed on the Orders of the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate . 
Mr. Speaker , I believe you would find consent to apply the results of the vote just taken to Motions Nos. 18 , 19 and 21 . 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay ( Solicitor General of Canada , Lib . ) : 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 13 , be amended by replacing lines 9 and 10 on page 5 with the following : 
tens of millions of dollars in fuel taxes that could be used to upgrade our system stay in the United States , together with the costs of lodging , meals , repairs and incidentals . 
in fact , if we follow the argument advanced by Senator Fraser last Thursday to its logical conclusion , we will have a two - tier legislative system in Parliament . 
it was our party that advised the minister to negotiate with all stakeholders and introduce an implementation plan with conservation as the first priority . 
for Quebec , this arrangement comprises essentially a transfer of management to the Soci é t é d ' habitation du Qu é bec for all social housing funded by the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation . 
i am surprised that the he is coming so close to the previous hon. member who spoke . 
some hon. members : 
what the Reform Party is saying right here and now is that it wants more federal intervention and more federal money for the provinces . 
our concern is that it is very loosely worded and not clearly prescribed in the legislation . 
i know how important intellectual properties are . 
miss Deborah Grey ( Edmonton North , Ref. ) : 
we have every intention of keeping our promise to the Nisga ' a people , to the mayor of Terrace and to the politicians in that region who support it . 
she is pursuing her studies in political science at the Faculty of Public Affairs and Management at Carleton University . 
the SENATE 
that the government should take action to remedy its overzealous and irresponsible pursuit of greater trade liberalization , which has caused extreme hardship for Canadian farmers - 
we have invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in that committee to work on that study on our behalf - and I want all honourable senators to know that . 
port OF VANCOUVER 
i won ' t sit down . 
if the minister asks me what is the value of this rule , my response would be that he should tell me what is the cost of the 10 % rule to the airlines and therefore to their consumers . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
seasons greetings to CF members , their families and Canadians everywhere . 
the government talks frequently about the infrastructure program . 
Mrs. Diane Ablonczy ( Calgary - Nose Hill , Ref. ) : 
animal Protection Legislation 
Mr. Jean - Guy Chr é tien ( Frontenac - M é gantic , BQ ) : 
it drives prices up . 
it is clearly a situation where it is parliament restraining the power of future governments . 
hon. David M. Collenette 
the Leader of the Government in the Senate will know the consequences of such a decision or position . 
members 
more than likely Ronald Reagan ' s is no longer busy now , so it is taking up some Reform and getting into that type of business . 
Ms. Diane St - Jacques 
i would suggest that most of the time it will be government that is actually in violation of its own act , in violation of its own laws . 
i sincerely hope that this issue will be examined in depth at committee . 
i hate to interrupt but I want to point out something for the record before we start debate on the motion . 
another challenge relates to the creation of new rules . 
canada ELECTIONS ACT 
Mr. Jean - Guy Chr é tien 
i ask a question and I do not prejudge the outcome but everyone can draw their own conclusions . 
it would give us a mark in the world as being on the leading edge of needed health care research . 
i do not think it is a question of " blurring the line " . 
that should a division be deferred until 5:30 p.m. today , the Speaker shall interrupt the proceedings at 3:30 p.m. to suspend the sitting until 5:30 p.m. for the taking of the deferred division ; and 
i urge all my colleagues who have industrious self - employed workers in their ridings wanting to take part in the democratic process to allow them to do so by voting for this amendment . 
the other issue which is directly tied to health research is the brain drain . 
honourable senators , I thank the honourable senator for the question and I appreciate the support that she has for the program . 
Mr. Speaker , I wonder if you and Mr. Lalonde sat in the House at the same time . 
motion No. 5 negatived 
the Speaker : 
this announcement immediately raised howls of protest and despair from Cape Breton as mining is all many Cape Bretoners have ever known . 
consequently , I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to table this document . 
No. 
the Deputy Speaker : 
he vowed to fight his own government tooth and nail on this bill . 
it very simply states that it " requires the judicial record of the conviction to be kept separate and apart from other criminal records '' . 
Mr. Ken Epp 
there is a litany of problems in this regard . 
hon. Senators : 
we are simply respecting the supreme court ruling . 
Mr. Mac Harb ( Ottawa Centre , Lib . ) moved for leave to introduce Bill C - 396 , an act to amend the Income Tax Act ( donors to food banks ) . 
it would have a board that would be co - chaired by the federal minister , along with the provincial and territorial ministers . 
it talks about those who built this great country , who devoted so much time and energy and who sacrificed so much in order to foster the spiritual and cultural growth of our community and the country . 
instead of putting up a shiny new office that million dollars could have provided emergency shelter for 30,000 homeless Canadians . 
almost every major U.S. petroleum producer , the minister said , had indicated support for the decision by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to forbid MMT being marketed as a gasoline additive '' . 
i would like to know where the member stands on what the secretary of state said . 
it does not impact on you . " 
there is the Young Offenders Act . 
it is very disturbing when a person makes $ 65,000 and he can barely make it because of the tax burden imposed by the government . 
the second and most important point is that in the throne speech we indicated our commitment to the enhancement of the infrastructure in the rural and urban areas of the country . 
by tomorrow , when she makes her announcement , it will have been 267 days . 
we make up those organizations . 
for once , Mr. Pierre Gravel was of the opinion that we were doing our work by creating a filibuster to stop Bill C - 82 in its tracks , because , among other things , the bill provided life sentences for impaired driving causing death . 
what is fair for the goose is fair for the gander . 
how can this minister stand in her place and not tell the truth , that her riding did not - 
Mr. Speaker , I propose that all motions which are selected for debate now and later be deemed to have been moved , seconded and read . 
the Government of Canada , through the Department of Justice , should institute a study - 
however , security services are being cut , even though we have had fatal accidents . 
i do not think I could speak as knowledgeably today if I had not experienced life on their land . 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay 
Mr. Speaker , if the reference is to briefings for journalists , these are certainly not secret briefings . 
that was also regarded as an attack upon the institution of marriage . 
what has happened now is they have said that they will leave it up to the individual chiefs . 
U.S. border state politicians are increasing their rhetoric and are once again starting to rattle their trade sabres , threatening the livelihood of Canadian agricultural producers . 
some provinces cannot afford to do more . 
the Liberals just cannot stand the notion of freedom of speech . 
it is absolutely astonishing when we hear , and when the Canadian public hears , that there are companies which received money that did not even fill out an application . 
i am asking for unanimous consent to do that . 
Mr. Yvon Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst , NDP ) : 
the 301 members of the House are part of the legislative branch and will be able to express their views and vote on this issue . 
this government wants to ensure that children are equipped with all the capacities they need to be ready to learn when they begin school and to grow into healthy productive adults . 
another amendment concerns electronic voting . 
can Canada work to ensure the primacy of the United Nations in resolving conflict ? 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased today to speak to Bill C - 2 , the Canada Elections Act . 
the Late Sandra Schmirler 
i want to ask the member what his concerns are . 
at about the same time , successive governments began mandating Devco to attain commercial viability . 
Mr. Speaker , I do not comment on RCMP investigations . 
that is what he said . 
quite simply , when I was appointed Solicitor General of Canada , 70 % of the people in our federal institutions were alcoholics or had drug problems . 
( 2 ) The committee designated or established for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) shall , as soon as practicable , undertake a comprehensive review of the provisions and operation of this Act and shall , within two years after the review is undertaken , submit a report to the Senate . " 
the government appreciates the hon. member ' s concern for the national highway system and commends him for bringing this matter to the attention of the House . 
hon. Michel Cogger : 
is he committed to doing it ? 
the senators sitting across from me - Senator Perrault and Senator Austin , both of whom are from British Columbia - know how badly this agreement has been dealt with . 
that is what Canadians were seriously horrified about . 
criminal Code 
remembrance Day 
it is very complex out there and our embassies struggle with a variety of people . 
concurrence IN VOTE 20 A - INDUSTRY 
the fact that he is appointed by the party in office creates a serious problem . 
member after member of that party are defecting and resigning because they cannot tolerate the positions being taken . 
from the 1920 s to the 1950 s , the Nisga ' a and other first nations ' efforts to have their rights recognized and practise their culture were restricted . 
nays 
* * * 
madam Speaker , the bill specifically recognizes the legitimacy of this movement by stating that any province can ask any question it wishes , but it would seek clarity on both the question and the majority . 
the EI clause , introduced in 1993 , goes a long way towards explaining why the rate of coverage for young people between the ages of 20 and 24 has dropped from 49.1 % in 1993 to 26.6 % in 1998 . 
Mr. Speaker , further to the introduction of a bill denying the fundamental rights of Quebecers , I have here parts of a report on the territorial integrity of the province of Quebec in the event that it achieves sovereignty , presented to the committee to examine matters relating to the accession of Qu é bec to sovereignty in May of 1992 , at the Quebec national assembly , which states that a sovereign Quebec would undergo no changes in its present boundaries . 
banking , Trade and Commerce 
Mr. Ryan added furthermore that , by wanting to make parliament the arbiter of clarity in the referendum question and result , contrary to the prerogatives of the National Assembly , the Liberal government was contravening the very principles of democracy . 
Mr. Speaker , I think you will see on page 244 of Beauchesne ' s that there is such a thing as the indivisibility of the Crown principle . 
i have taken part in such negotiations . 
i believe that you would find , Mr. Speaker , consent for the following motion : 
i will comment briefly on the importance of ongoing communication between the government and the public . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
members 
when I restated that I was the surviving spouse she asked for my name and " the name of the deceased '' . 
Mr. Speaker , I have here the speech the Prime Minister of Canada delivered in Hull on November 28 , 1999 , where he says that the referendum questions , both in 1980 and in 1995 , were clear . 
this could very easily create a paradise environment for lawyers . 
this successful company employs close to 3,000 people worldwide . 
in Quebec , we are determined that we will never allow the Liberal government to interfere in our areas of responsibility . 
motion No. 143 
we are at Motion No. 307 . 
ask a question . 
motion No. 116 
he bragged that there is a limit on the treaty right . 
the moneys set aside for economic adjustment are inadequate even by the government ' s own estimates which placed the need at $ 300 million . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
Canadians are confident in their economy and they are confident in their government . 
we can put in place all the RCMP and all the police assistance that we want in communities , but we must address the basic fundamental attitudes of young people and tell them that they have to respect one another . 
members 
i congratulate my colleagues from Bras d ' Or - Cape Breton and Acadie - Bathurst for having worked strenuously to achieve that kind of commitment from the government . 
government RESPONSE TO PETITIONS 
the finance committee will now be out . 
also , the ramifications of this decision will be with us , our children and our children ' s children for generations . 
my question relates to the status of Inter - Canadian Inc. , Canada ' s largest independent regional air carrier . 
members of the Canadian heritage committee , along with many witnesses who made presentations to the committee , helped identify a number of glaring weaknesses within the legislation . 
we did so in a spirit of co - operation , knowing that for young people across Canada we could bring the best from all areas including Quebec and do so in a very positive way . 
that fact goes to the very heart of our history , of our existence as a country . 
addressing their needs and ensuring their safety have involved many agencies in our communities : government and social services , law enforcement , and as voluntary and non - profit organizations . 
a recent article in Le Devoir about the health of seniors in Quebec described the situation facing the province ' s beleaguered Department of Health and Social Services : 
from a personal point of view , the fact that Canada is continuing its involvement in space is somewhat gratifying in the sense that my uncle is considered one of Canada ' s space pioneers . 
motion No. 18 
( the House divided on the motion , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
Quebec - Possible Conditions of Referendum - Role of Senate 
i will read directly from the Debates of the Senate . 
Mr. Jim Pankiw 
i declare Motion No. 4 lost . 
if context needs to be provided , then a summary section is the standard practice . 
in other words , why bring a bill to us telling us that we have no power ? 
if he would understand farmers at all in western Canada he would know that they are well - educated people . 
this is the same man who signed the treaty of 1760 . 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
it is underhanded and it is simply wrong . 
every time they try to escape from the dependence in which they are trapped , they must seek the minister ' s permission . 
i was fascinated to hear about his research on hepatitis B , which was conducted in a Canadian institute at a very high level . 
government MPs spent six months telling the Premier of British Columbia that it was not a template , that it rested on its own particular historical facts . 
the government said no , the committee should not travel . 
these are the words of a great Quebecer with vast experience in political and federal politics whose integrity and political judgment have earned him the esteem of his fellow citizens regardless of political stripe . 
for example , criminal charges were laid in September of this year against a refiner and two retailers of gasoline for price maintenance . 
keynote speakers included renowned medical researcher and early childhood development expert , Dr. Fraser Mustard ; Dr. John Wootton , Executive Director of the Office of Rural Health for Health Canada ; and our eminent colleague and children ' s issues advocate , the hon. member for Don Valley West . 
i will be splitting my time . 
section 237 would also accord greater strength to the charter of rights and for Canadians to enjoy property . 
members 
hon. Don Boudria ( Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
members 
that is what we need , not a bunch of ridiculous programs that come forward , as we have seen in the past from this government , such as TAGS . 
members of the NDP are trying to justify their position . 
what a joke . 
Mr. Speaker , if my hon. colleague wanted an answer he could have informed me of the situation before question period . 
i am disgusted at the Liberal government and its total disregard for the democratic process in the House . 
we need to honour our heroes . 
senator Grafstein : 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
the answer yesterday evening at 7 p.m. was " Never , there is no question of it '' . 
she has listened to a wide range of views on the matter in order to come up with a solution to this problem . 
it is as if there had been no committee hearings at all with respect to this bill . 
when properly structured , they may provide roads at a lower cost and more quickly than traditional procurement methods . 
members 
i am sorry to interrupt the hon. parliamentary secretary , but time has run out . 
presence IN GALLERY 
under Bill C - 8 , each department will have jurisdiction over its own areas or zones . 
we are asking the court to rule , as I said , that the treaty , the Nisga ' a final agreement , is unconstitutional on each of those grounds . 
it is certainly not a point of order . 
in my view , if we carry this forward to 60 agreements there will not be a commercial fishery in Canada . 
Checkmate . 
it seems the Liberal government has devised a new process for drafting the budget this year . 
this proposal strikes us as a bit strange . 
i am wondering if Senator Murray could explain the apparent change in position . 
we know that when the auditor general criticizes something the government has done , the public listens to him . 
honourable senators , these Main Estimates support the government ' s request for Parliament ' s authority to spend $ 50.1 billion under program authorities for which annual approval is required . 
statements BY MEMBERS 
in fact , Canadians were shut out of the committee hearings . 
once the way was paved , a movement started to emerge . 
there are other reasons for setting out the circumstances under which the Government of Canada would negotiate around a referendum result . 
at the same time as it does that , the advisory panel also has absolutely no teeth connected with it . 
the hon. member indicated that a lawsuit was launched against him by a senator following the distribution to his constituents of a bulk mailing of 16 pages on the subject of the Senate . 
i say to my friends opposite , what evidence do we have of the impact of globalization ? 
in 1986 , Ontario became the second province , after Quebec , to amend its human rights code , which is the equivalent of Quebec ' s charter of human rights , and to include sexual orientation as a prohibited ground of discrimination . 
but once you had stood up , you said that the member for Chambly was seated and had not asked for the floor , when all I was doing was complying with the standing orders . 
given that this bill has been supported by all parties in the other place , by provincial and territorial ministers of justice and law enforcement authorities throughout Canada , I believe it merits our support . 
she got away from the treaty and began working in a hospital in the Beaverlodge area . 
without his determined efforts we would not be here today . 
in 1993 , also an important year , the government opposite came to power in October of that year . 
Mr. Eric Lowther 
Mr. Speaker , the lobster season only opened yesterday for lobster fishing areas 33 and 34 in Nova Scotia and already the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans has shown how unprepared he and his department are . 
members 
it is the result of close to 25 years of negotiations . 
why would we have points within a bill that we know the courts will reject ? 
( the House adjourned at 2.31 p.m. ) 
as a matter of fact , that is one of the main planks of the Reform Party ' s policy . 
Mr. Speaker , I met with the ministers of agriculture from two western provinces today . 
some hon. members : 
Mr. Janko Peric 
i fail to understand why it was not felt advisable to try to use them as a point of departure for drafting legislation that meets the needs of Canadians in several respects where the Code , which , as you know is a compromise , might not be up to the task '' . 
bill C - 4 . 
perhaps the Republicans should check the historical record to see what eventually happens to empires which trust more in their weapons than in the will of God for a just , peaceful and non - nuclear world . 
in the opinion of the Chair , there should be two speeches of unlimited time . 
the first ones to make that assessment would be the government of the province . 
( k ) to those honours , distinctions , and awards that are not hereditary in character such as life peerages , knighthoods , military and chivalrous orders ; and 
citizens around the globe realize that there is a cost to making trade the first and foremost consideration over the protection of the environment that supports us . 
members 
in fact this agreement will guarantee that the Nisga ' a people will see another hundred years of poverty in their communities . 
members 
division No. 202 
we have much left to do . 
hon. Lyle Vanclief ( Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food , Lib . ) : 
the selection of returning officers is also an issue that will have to be addressed . 
this is one more in a series of similar petitions signed by thousands in my riding and in the ridings of a number of other members who have presented similar petitions in the House . 
in all fairness the minister and his officials would probably read and study the recommendation . 
i raise this point in the proceedings to give the government fair warning that it is completely dissatisfying the people of the country and the members of the House with its arrogant treatment of committees . 
that is what we should have done , but I am afraid it will have to be done in another bill . 
we are , therefore , sensitive to the pain of those Canadians who may at one time have been victimized by the inhumanity of war , or by bigotry and oppression . 
business OF THE HOUSE 
the court further stated : " While we recognize their right '' - third parties - `` to participate in the electoral process , independent individuals and groups cannot be subject to the same financial rules as candidates or political parties and be allowed the same spending limits . 
i happen to represent a riding in the province of Manitoba . 
the flag was presented to me on the understanding that I would present it to the minister . 
they are rewarded . 
i will be referring later to some very distinguished Canadians who believe that Bill C - 20 in no way infringes upon the rights of provincial legislatures to do as they wish in framing questions . 
i can only wonder why the member for Davenport is trying to upset this balance that we have now achieved on the coast of British Columbia . 
Ms. Carolyn Parrish ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Public Works and Government Services , Lib . ) : 
some hon. members : 
" Nisga ' a Final Agreement . " 
the federal Solicitor General , with the support of the Minister of Justice , undertook at the 1998 meeting to determine how best to do this , in consultation with provincial partners . 
one example is that $ 1 million will go to the United Nations for fuel for heating systems in Pristina which will provide about 40 % of the city ' s heat , including hospitals and schools . 
he will not propose any changes . 
the Export Development Corporation is in strange position . 
i have gone so far as to say - and I would say this if we had a Conservative government , an NDP government or a Reform government - that if something is not done , and there is an accident , responsibility will lie directly on cabinet , the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence . 
motion No. 297 negatived 
hopefully high ranking scientists will be allowed to make decisions without interference from the government . 
perhaps we can clarify it . 
division No. 423 
the other bill exists but it has never been tabled in this place . 
they have worked relentlessly to have aboriginal and treaty rights recognized . 
ladies and Gentlemen : 
the hon. minister of Indian affairs . 
sound principles of management and conservation based on well grounded science must be implemented . 
not all murderers deserve the death penalty , but in most heinous cases such as Clifford Olson , Paul Bernardo and a Karla Homolka the punishment must fit the crime . 
you would know Mac Wilson from Renfrew . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough 
in Ontario , the provincial government eliminated its business occupancy tax . 
reporting waste in initiatives that the government has strongly supported and publicized can be more problematic . 
she would hand out these cards . 
we have a quorum . 
that is what is wrong and that is what is relevant with this bill . 
Mr. Joe McGuire 
one important exception , mainly amendments introduced dealing with questions as to the certainty of future benefits , the final agreement passed in the British Columbia legislature contained no significant amendment to the agreement in principle tabled in 1996 . 
in times of awareness , more is better . 
they have told me they have looked at the Nisga ' a agreement . 
action is long overdue , as there are now some 6,000 formulated products registered in Canada . 
i therefore whole heartily support their request . 
your predecessor was a president of the Liberal Party , too . 
we all listened intently and politely to the minister . 
an hon. member : 
homelessness differs in communities across Canada and requires a response specific to that community . 
social Affairs , Science & Technology Committee 
do we want to put in place a registry ? 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
it seems like a long time ago , our first caucus in Collingwood , where indeed all members of the Liberals caucus were very , very worried about the state of medical research in this country . 
imagine a country that was hundreds of nations warring within the bosom of a single state . 
honourable senators , I apologize if I took the leader by surprise . 
there was a shift in population in the late 1800 s , driven by missionaries . 
i can assure the member that we will be bearing her remarks and her proposal in mind when this legislation comes forward . 
i think people have heard of him . 
Mr. Mike Scott ( Skeena , Ref. ) : 
Ms. Val Meredith 
we do not know anything about that . 
Mrs. Diane Ablonczy ( Calgary - Nose Hill , Ref. ) : 
i am also hopeful that by the time this debate is over , Canadians in all parts of Canada and members of parliament representing all parts of Canada will understand that this bill and the agreement to which it gives effect have ramifications for them . 
nationally only 36 % of the unemployed qualify for EI benefits . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron ( Verch è res - Les - Patriotes , BQ ) : 
we continue to do so . 
the Nisga ' a agreement seems disturbing , surprising , a thorn in the side of our national tranquillity . 
bank ACT 
he is the one mainly responsible for the mess in hospitals , but that does not bother him in the least . 
it would thus agree to members of this House knowing our international obligations and to the enshrinement of a practice that was carried on for a number of years in this House . 
we will see to it , when the time comes for us to introduce amendments , that the bill gives a larger role to the provinces . 
i will conclude by addressing what was not in this speech . 
it was founded in 1938 as the Chair in Poetry , and then in 1984 it became the Consultant . 
however , that is not the way the world is in some parts . 
* * * 
motion No. 437 negatived 
the international community has identified the fight against organized crime as a priority issue . 
it defined " the withdrawal of life - sustaining treatment " as " stopping treatment that has the potential to sustain life " ; for example , removing a respirator . 
of course the stakes are very high ... 
any violation of the parole conditions , which includes the commission of any further crime , but can , and often does , include other conditions such as remaining free of drugs , results in a revocation of parole and the convicted person is sent back to prison to complete their life sentence . 
i suggest that he do so . 
it is to limit competition on the ballot . 
bill C - 326 . 
i am sure that in her study of this matter , the honourable senator is aware that one of the principles at stake is the Charter of Rights and Freedoms . 
i think this is something that should be of concern to the justice committee when it comes to act on the motion proposed by the Bloc Quebecois . 
the next question is on Motion No. 287 . 
Mr. Speaker , does the Minister of Health intend to respond to the concerns expressed by his deputy minister and give his officials the appropriate resources to enable them to do their work ? 
Arabism versus Africanism will create contradictions difficult to overcome . 
osteoporosis Month 
why is it that whenever the government makes a mistake , taxpayers end up paying the bill ? 
Mr. Mac Harb 
i would like to know why the Chair prevents the minister from answering before the minister has even decided whether he will answer or hide behind the fact that he does not have to answer . 
some hon. members : 
i think the scientists themselves are looking to the new act to free up dollars for actual research projects and that the money will go into research . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
maintaining and enhancing our standard of living require a comprehensive strategy to take us into the 21 st century . 
my parents ' fight for custody was the scariest thing in the world and it made me realize that marriage is stupid and having kids is something I ' ll never ever do . 
in addition , will the government now review its policy on Cuba , since quiet diplomacy has obviously failed ? 
recognizing the critical impact of diabetes the government recently announced a five year $ 115 million Canadian diabetes strategy to help prevent and control the disease . 
years and years and years of letting the inner city of Winnipeg rot has had a very predictable outcome and consequence in the form of a permanent underclass . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 428 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
some hon. members : 
members 
at least the framework for an agreement exists and the envoys from neighbouring countries have been active since the beginning of this year . 
ministers who knowingly mislead Parliament will be expected to offer their resignation to the Prime Minister ; ministers should be as open as possible with Parliament , refusing to provide information only when disclosure would not be in the public interest - 
the minister has already referred to this . 
could there be some better language ? 
as the government moves into not only a new year but a new decade , a new century , and a new millennium , I would think it would want to do that too . 
Mr. Speaker , yesterday the Standing Committee on Human Resources Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities made short work of the Prime Minister ' s simplistic line about the financial problem at Human Resources Development Canada being limited to $ 250 . 
the recommendations in the report reflect very clearly what the representations were . 
i will deviate from my text for a moment . 
human RIGHTS 
Mr. Speaker , I am presenting a petition this morning on behalf of the rural mail couriers who work for Canada Post . 
of course not , Mr. Speaker . 
indeed , as several honourable senators are saying publicly and privately , we should be looking at ways to make the Senate more visible . 
Mr. Speaker , they have been cut already . 
it does not exist in the census and it is not something one declares in one ' s tax return . 
we grew and we flourished . 
the terrible thing in this is that many people need money . 
being well educated people , our young people look forward to a good future in this country . 
it is my honour to table the petition in the House and to call on parliament to officially declare November as incontinence awareness month . 
Mr. Speaker , pursuant to Standing Order 36 ( 8 ) , I have the honour to table , in both official languages , the government ' s response to four petitions , and I move : 
if the question is assessed as favourable , then the House will assess the answer . 
Mr. Jim Hart ( Okanagan - Coquihalla , Ref. ) : 
hon. Charles Caccia 
however , some of my constituents have expressed concern about the possible damage bulk water removal would cause the environment should it be allowed . 
CANADIAN FARMERS 
the petitioners are calling on parliament to quickly pass legislation making it mandatory to label all fully or partially genetically modified foods . 
i can say , for example , as chairman of the health committee , that we deal with issues all the time of grave and great importance to Canadians , no matter where they live . 
nay . 
recently team Canada '97 , led by the Prime Minister , was in the Philippines . 
nays 
this would not infringe upon an author ' s ability to have his material in the classroom . 
as this is costing taxpayers $ 2.4 million - 
he knows very well this is the case . 
Mr. John Solomon 
for two years , I was fortunate enough to work with the member for Drummond , and I know that she has done some excellent work . 
this suggests the Nisga ' a final agreement will serve as a guide for land and cash values . 
it is all very well but the ones who have had to pay are the people earning between $ 25,000 and $ 70,000 a year ; those are the families that have borne the brunt of it . 
* * * 
some hon. members : 
Mr. Derek Lee 
i learned of the critical need for educated and technically trained people in all disciplines . 
is that right continued under the Nisga ' a agreement , or is it lesser or greater protection for women who return to the Nisga ' a community ? 
APEC INQUIRY 
however , why would we want to put those nurses through that stress , through the great cost and through the time before they get some justice for the situation ? 
motion No. 389 negatived 
madam Speaker , I want to commend the hon. member for Acadie - Bathurst for his motion . 
in other words , the individual who is accused of a particular crime , apprehended or whatever the case may be is not obligated to speak at all . 
until such time as the Reform Party gives the Canadian people a plan that is based on solid facts it will have no credibility in this debate . 
child POVERTY 
Mr. John Herron 
Mr. Darrel Stinson ( Okanagan - Shuswap , Ref. ) : 
that insult , that injustice , did not bring Quebec to capitulate . 
the finance minister has done an extraordinary job in bringing us all together . 
hon. Lucienne Robillard ( President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for Infrastructure , Lib . ) moved : 
madam Speaker , on behalf of the New Democratic caucus I too am very pleased to stand and offer our condolences on the passing of Roderick Webb who was elected 40 years ago this fall in a byelection in Hastings - Frontenac to represent that constituency . 
Mr. Paul Szabo 
we have known this for a long time . 
this fund will help create 47 units and repair the existing shelters for the homeless . 
unprotected employee ( hired after December 1983 ) . 
the minister himself released a study this past summer at the health ministers conference in Charlottetown showing that in many respects we have a much more serious situation than we have ever had when it comes to children , young people and aboriginal people . 
as far as the actual terms and how long one should or could be sitting in the Senate , right now somebody could be appointed at 30 , be there until 75 , and serve an entire 45 years without any accountability to the Prime Minister , to the House of Commons or to any elector in any province any place in the country . 
i have not heard members opposite crediting Devco with making $ 6 billion . 
i would like to emphasize a point made by my colleague , the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Justice , that corporate criminal liability is part of the larger goal of improving workplace safety . 
in each and every year , instead of adding to the national debt , we will pay it down . 
we also know that the National Transportation Act will be deregulated in January 2000 . 
division No. 492 
in the next five years it has been estimated that one - tenth of the Russian population will be HIV positive . 
bill to Amend - First Reading 
Wednesday , December 8 , 1999 
members 
i remember discussing that situation with Senators Forrestall and Roche in the Foreign Affairs Committee . 
* * * 
* * * 
it is very encouraging to hear in the Speech from the Throne that the Government of Canada is committed to addressing many of these concerns . 
yet the economy of the city I represent is in good shape , proof that housing is not just a problem in certain less fortunate regions . 
all parties except the Reform Party are satisfied with the bill in its present form . 
Mr. George Proud : 
these three corporations are excluded from schedule IV. 
to a man whose efforts gave meaning to the slogan " Humanity first " of the CCF , the forerunner to the New Democratic Party , to the man who also toiled on behalf of his family , his constituents and his fellow citizens for 
i do not mean more cash , more land or resource rights based on race , but based on need . 
citizens were deprived of an opportunity to react in a timely manner to the supreme court decision . 
for the last two years farmers across Canada have faced destructive drops in farm income . 
and it is important to recall that with the great waves of immigration , there has been , since the beginning , an underlying motif : the lost , the rejected , and those who dreamed of another life would come here and would make a contribution to the whole . 
the difficulty in the limitation of this piece of legislation is that it is justice legislation which has to deal with the problem . 
we were reminded of this reality most recently in Kosovo . 
( division 743 ) 
who gets half the statutory holiday pay ? 
member FOR ABITIBI - BAIE JAMES - NUNAVIK 
however , it must be realized that we are putting $ 1.9 billion into social housing . 
" force on March 1 , 2011 . " 
Mr. Speaker , I was here when the Canada Health Act was passed . 
honourable senators , over 90 years ago , when Anne of Green Gables was first published , few thought it would turn out to be one of the most beloved works of fiction in Canada ' s proud literary history , but there is no question that Anne is part of our nation ' s cultural fabric . 
the Speaker : 
i would ask Mr. Speaker for a stay on the ruling he intends to give , whether this constitutes a prima facie case of privilege . 
he followed his brother ' s footsteps in the medical profession and is today a world renowned heart specialist . 
we are dealing with a true crisis . 
yes , I agree that we are seeing an appalling and abysmal lack of leadership from the federal government . 
the system the minister has been proposing so far is based on the nature and seriousness of the offence , thereby ignoring the young offenders ' needs . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe 
Mr. Speaker , recently , the Minister for International Trade took great pleasure in commenting on the problems experienced by Emploi - Qu é bec . 
hon. Lucienne Robillard ( President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for Infrastructure , Lib . ) moved : 
if the House gives its consent , I intend to move concurrence in the first report later this day . 
members 
that is the only political party in British Columbia that supports this bill . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
when it is the one we wish for , it is a different matter '' . 
some hon. members : 
there are a number of ways to resolve a dispute when two people disagree . 
we look back to where we were about a year ago this week when we announced as a federal government that we would be putting forward $ 900 million . 
farm TOURISM INDUSTRY 
Monday , November 1 , 1999 
the first is , given that the AIDA program and other compensation programs are 60:40 , should the provinces be required to pay their share ? 
Mr. John Bryden 
honourable senators , that is why I gave percentages in my preamble . 
the report does not go far enough in this regard . 
on the contrary , I explained to the House a minute ago that it is $ 1.1 billion that the federal government put on the table this year , plus the contribution of 40 % of that amount from the provincial governments . 
senator Prud ' homme : 
members 
hon. Martin Cauchon 
will the minister tell the House what action is now being contemplated to respond to the humanitarian crisis in East Timor ? 
i believe Senator Spivak should confirm what I think is the proper course , and it should be done under her name as mover of the motion . 
it had a subsidy drenched subsistence economy with the highest taxes in Europe , whose only major export was its young people . 
( division 164 ) 
in the coming months , therefore , we must work to improve our performance indicators . 
Mr. Ted White ( North Vancouver , Ref. ) : 
besides , concerned by the fact that Quebecers are attracted to the concept of partnership , the federal government claims that is has the power to order that an eventual referendum should deal with only one issue , what Ottawa calls secession , which , again , would go against the spirit and the letter of the supreme court ' s opinion . 
i reminded them of the money that has been put into the AIDA program . 
Mr. Myron Thompson 
when today ' s infants grow up , they will be in a much richer society . 
Ms. H é l è ne Alarie : 
in my opinion the nays have it . 
madam Speaker , you can understand how happy I am to take part in this debate , first of all because we are back and I missed you a little , assuming that the reverse might somewhat be true . 
i am not aware of a whole lot of research that has been done . 
i do not want to name any pharmaceutical companies because I have too many friends in that field to give preferential treatment to one over another , but between the time a molecule is isolated in research and a drug is patented for use against a disease , 10 or 20 years may well have gone by . 
the Brandeis Brief , named after the great Mr. Justice Brandeis , details social and economic evidence of the implications of court decisions including the practical consequences of those decisions . 
Mrs. Michelle Dockrill ( Bras d ' Or - Cape Breton , NDP ) : 
they are taking part this week in the Canada Sports Friendship Exchange Program with a team from Gatineau , Quebec . 
Mr. Maurice Vellacott ( Wanuskewin , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Rick Casson ( Lethbridge , Ref. ) : 
i ask again , will the minister stop making excuses and get on with his responsibility to help resolve this dispute ? 
Mr. Ovid L . Jackson ( Bruce - Grey , Lib . ) : 
governor GENERAL ' S AWARDS 
hon. Lloyd Axworthy ( Minister of Foreign Affairs , Lib . ) : 
that in relation to Bill C - 9 , an act to give effect to the Nisga ' a Final Agreement , not more than one further sitting day shall be allotted to the consideration of the second reading stage of the said bill and , fifteen minutes before the expiry of the time provided for government business on the day allotted to the consideration of the second reading stage of the said bill , any proceedings before the House shall be interrupted , if required for the purpose of this order , and in turn every question necessary for the disposal of the stage of the bill then under consideration shall be put forthwith and successively without further debate or amendment . 
hon. Douglas Roche : 
i will conclude by saying that there is no doubt that the federal government should withdraw immediately from the administration of criminal justice and leave it to the provinces . 
i must say that by virtue of having a sign such as this , it reminds me of how much in the trough both the Conservatives and the Liberals are . 
unfortunately , for too many years first nations have not fully enjoyed the benefits of this great land , in part because they have had limited access to fish , forests , minerals and other natural resources . 
following the referendum it was again the official opposition which led the debate , turning the focus of the debate away from the negative results from secession into positive nation building efforts by trying to reconstruct the federation . 
* * * 
for Reform members to try to tie up a bill so significant as the youth justice bill over something else that they have already lost is , to me , almost unparliamentary . 
yeas 
nays 
LATVIA 
however , people who are not eligible for employment insurance benefits go for weeks and months without any income . 
that is a huge amount of money in the hands of the various organized crime gangs . 
i believe it was Bill 87 . 
literacy 
Mr. Speaker , on February 1 , CANDO sent the human resources minister an urgent e - mail about the missing money : " We are in jeopardy '' . 
we just have to make sure that political authorities do not abuse it . 
after graduation , she took an engineering job at Bell Canada , but then left it six months later to work full - time on gun control . 
Ms. Libby Davies 
that allows the provinces to take moneys and build a platform of services to support of our children in low income families . 
members 
the federal government has an opportunity to provide through the process of establishing a national park the much needed open democratic process that people have been asking for by negotiating with all parties involved : concerned citizens , environmental and conservationist groups , the logging company , native groups , the tourism industry , all of them . 
their goals were to act fairly , were to act justly , were to balance the range of interest expressed by people who were consulted and we see that this was done . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
madam Speaker , I am proud to have the opportunity to stand today to support the motions put forward by my colleague for Regina - Lumsden - Lake Centre and to speak on the important issues that these motions raise . 
more girls are born than boys in regions where exposure is high . 
some cases were extremely small . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
it is worth looking at some of the statistics that the hon. member referred to a minute ago . 
motions Nos. 439 , 440 , 441 , 442 , 443 , 444 and 445 
i declare Motion No. 64 lost . 
if this works out , not only will methane be released , which could be very useful , but it will help us to achieve our objectives . 
Mr. Speaker , I remind the hon. member that just three or four weeks ago the Canadian Council of Grocery Distributors as well as the Standards Council of Canada , the Consumers ' Association of Canada , processors and producers began work on a set of criteria that could be used for the labelling of genetically modified food in Canada . 
Mr. Speaker , my question is for the Minister of Transport . 
Mr. Yvon Charbonneau ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Health , Lib . ) : 
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration 
first Report of Special Committee Tabled 
i would also like to mention the work of the national organization for equal rights called Egale - Equality for Gays and Lesbians Everywhere - that was very pleased with the introduction of Bill C - 23 in the House of Commons . 
Ms. Val Meredith 
i have talked about many different aspects of it . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
all Canadians can share in this pride and celebrate the Canadian way . 
members 
we have to give it to the individual . 
in view of recent practices , do hon. members agree that the bill be distributed now ? 
at that time , then prime minister Trudeau accepted the judgment of the United Nations , which was made after the Supreme Court Canada had found the sex discrimination in the Indian Act to be okay and not offensive to the Bill of Rights . 
we believe that in those circumstances where a formal approach is required child welfare and the mental health systems are the preferred approaches . 
oh , oh . 
senator Boudreau : 
the interview was given to CTV , on November 19 , 1972 . 
it is entitled " Committee Debate on Clarity Turning into Family Feud '' . 
he was perplexed by that , and I can only share that confusion . 
( division 363 ) 
some of you might say that this approach is too rigorous . 
some hon. members : 
health SERVICES 
today we have an example of this in the coal mining sector . 
yea . 
hon. Paul Martin 
employment INSURANCE 
the ENVIRONMENT 
* * * 
he was Minister of Labour from 1958 until 1963 in the John Diefenbaker administration . 
the next question is on the main motion . 
i want to tell all Canadians that we must protect our environment . 
the Senate committee was not alone in recommending clarification of the criminal law regarding the permissibility of providing , in order to alleviate suffering , treatment that may shorten life . 
in doing so , they will be joining a massive wave of support which has come in from across the country . 
Mr. Mauril B é langer 
for example , in some ridings people who are really against the government might show up in greater numbers to vote to kick the government out than those who are tepidly in favour of the government . 
there is constant bad blood that inhibits their ability to protect Canadians . 
in 1997 , national forestry exports were estimated at $ 38.9 billion . 
can the finance minister tell us when he will deliver the budget ? 
paired 
i am referring to my friends in the Reform Party , and I use that term advisedly . 
that is what gave our country its foundation . 
in the intervening time a too pre - emptive concern with special constitutional issues thought to relate to Quebec tended to kill off discussion of other issues . 
however , the order that we adopted earlier today specifically said that the debate would be concluded at 5.15 p.m. , which we have done . 
some of it is beyond our control , such as the natural weather conditions . 
Ms. Judy Wasylycia - Leis 
Ms. Paddy Torsney : 
by the way , it will not simply be lost in the morass of information that exists in our world . 
agreed . 
it would oversee relationships in order to promote , respect and uphold the aboriginal and treaty rights of aboriginal people , the honour of the Crown , and the spirit and intent of the treaties , self - government , and related agreements and legislation . 
this legislation is at least a start in the direction the government has to go . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
money is flowing in from everywhere and has to be distributed . 
that is because of the approach of the government to work in partnership at the community level to focus on the issues that will make a difference for citizens in those ridings to use their skills and abilities to diversify the economy . 
we have to talk about the multifunctionality of agriculture with respect to the environment . 
these clauses are needed whenever a new collective agreement is reached which changes the previous conditions of employment . 
they urged the federal government to raise family allowances . 
the industry itself has a lot of confidence in its own capabilities . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Alex Shepherd : 
we have to deal with the needs of the child . 
a society that respects and honours its children has its fundamentals right . 
honourable senators , increased expenditures in the health care field in the province of Nova Scotia - and I suspect elsewhere as well - have been substantial . 
human rights improvements have been significant there . 
i am being appointed as the chair '' . 
provision of Foreign Aid Conditional on Human Rights Record - Government Policy 
that is why we did not include it in the brief , because we saw the more dangerous proposition that would be put forward . 
our moderator for the panel discussion will be the Hon. Bob Rae . 
this has resulted in the treatment of personal information as a commodity . 
second , we have the rather spurious and unfounded argument by the member for Brandon - Souris who tossed out his conclusion that this is a bad piece of legislation because consultations are not included in the legislation . 
we do support him in that and I sincerely wish him the very best in finding the solutions that will appease all of those who are looking for a peaceful resolution to the matter . 
Mr. Speaker , in this specific instance , as soon as I became aware of the allegations , I asked that the matter be referred directly to the ethics counsellor . 
Mr. St é phan Tremblay 
( b ) the Commissioner may review the scope of the information being collected and the time and manner of the proposed collection , and may limit the collection or the time or manner of collection if , in the Commissioner ' s opinion and taking into account the identified purposes , the scope is not reasonable or the time or manner is not fair and lawful in the circumstances ; and 
we have to know what is going on . 
the LATE CHARLES SCHULZ 
Joseph ' s son is now paralyzed after a violent assault . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
will the government consider a deconstitutionalizing clause in the Nisga ' a bill in exchange for a withdrawal of the official opposition ' s 471 amendments ? 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the government talks about operating on the basis of the social union agreement . 
if we adhere strictly to the standing orders but they begin to change the rules along the way , like they are trying to do with the bill to establish a framework for the Quebec referendum , then nothing makes sense any more . 
members 
one is in the area of taxation . 
perhaps when it comes to education there will be rights to vote . 
that is why , now that I am calmed down , I wish to make sure that I correct every step that I may have taken incorrectly . 
Mr. Speaker , as you know , if you have to take a lot of time standing , waiting for order , that uses up time which would otherwise go toward questions and answers . 
at the last election , Canadians were asked to vote for the Liberals because they promised to provide accountability , integrity and transparency . 
by doubling the 1997 - 98 levels of research funding to $ 500 million in the year 2001 - 02 Canada will regain some ground it lost to the cuts over the past six years . 
we do not have to be second cousins when it comes to economic prosperity . 
that is quite a flip flop . 
Thursday , December 16 , 1999 
( division 396 ) 
( the House divided on Motion No. 457 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
honourable senators , I am not going to determine who is right and who wrong . 
hon. Herb Gray ( Deputy Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
it could be anything from the development of future medicines to things which are happening on Earth which can be observed from space . 
Mr. Gurbax Singh Malhi ( Bramalea - Gore - Malton - Springdale , Lib . ) : 
the orphan clause issue is related to the Canada Labour Code . 
Mr. Tony Valeri ( Stoney Creek , Lib . ) : 
on motion of Senator Wilson , for Senator Austin , debate adjourned . 
we can see the hypocrisy of some people , such as the hon. member for Notre - Dame - de - Gr â ce - Lachine , who says that anglophones in Quebec are being discriminated against . 
Mr. Grant Hill ( Macleod , Ref. ) : 
i am sure that no money is actually spent because people do not register . 
at the same we have a new Minister for International Trade calling upon the business community to rally its support for a new FTAA , with no real protection for culture and , furthermore , a new FTAA which revives the odious concept of investor rights . 
i must interrupt the hon. member at this point as his time has expired . 
if I have understood the minister correctly , she is going to wait for the third year report evaluating the employment insurance program before deciding whether she is going to make eligibility conditions easier for women . 
today more than 50 food and beverage processing plants account for over $ 1 billion in shipments . 
as a Quebecer , to counter manipulation , I propose clarity . 
resuming debate on the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Gill calling the attention of the Senate to the situation of Aboriginal Peoples , to enable us to take stock and consider appropriate measures for the future . - ( 
when the opposition talked about a billion dollars I reported that in $ 11 million of so - called problems there was an overpayment of a little bit more than $ 250 . 
this is a classic case of access denial , parental alienation , and false accusations of child sexual abuse against the father . 
that is another government policy that has built on this . 
the next question is on Motion No. 118 . 
honourable senators , during the 132 years since Confederation , many distinguished Canadians have inhabited the confines of these chamber walls . 
the hon. member for Etobicoke did contradict something I had said in my presentation . 
let me be clear about this . 
i know that the minister and his team are studying the report very closely . 
unfortunately what we have seen is a polarization amongst the employees of both companies , so much so that it is causing an extraordinary amount of acrimony . 
here are some of them : 
Canadians have to know absolutely , to understand and to buy into it in order to have the future that I perceive we should have in Canada , a future of peace and harmony . 
as we speak , there is an impending devastating famine in Angola , completely and utterly organized by the two individuals that have been engaging in war for so long and using their people as tools and pawns . 
this is a clear sign that globally renowned companies on the cutting edge of the new information technologies recognize that Canada - 
i can tell the House that when I got the results , I was concerned . 
Mr. Speaker , is there anybody left who wonders why Canadians do not have confidence in the government ? 
Mr. Ted McWhinney 
the bill would look after those workers . 
yea . 
i ask the minister that . 
madam Speaker , having listened to the member for Skeena I find it incredible that so much misinformation continues to come forward from that member and other members of the Reform Party . 
i waited and waited for the minister to mention where our farmers fit into the future equation of the government . 
could the minister explain why his department is so poor at basic math ? 
he had in his mind that he would turn over about $ 20 million of Canadian taxpayer funds . 
Mr. Mac Harb 
i am proud that my province of New Brunswick is a leader in the development of palliative care in Canada . 
and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls ; It tolls for thee . 
Mrs. Francine Lalonde 
this morning the minister said that if parliament does not settle the issue , the courts will . 
is leave granted , honourable senators ? 
we listened to those concerns , because we cannot make it better if we do not understand what the problems are . 
i do not know what the answer is but I do know how we got here . 
Pierre F . C ô t é , the former chief electoral officer in Quebec said " In the area of democracy , for there to be democracy , there has to be the appearance of democracy '' . 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
oh , oh . 
i would ask if my vote could be recorded among the nays . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
in this case both of the chairs had been appointed by the Conservatives . 
i would like it noted that it was the government side that refused to let the pages go home . 
when my ancestors first came from Norway many years ago , they were eligible to homestead on 160 acres of land virtually for free . 
hon. Herb Gray 
Mr. Speaker , I have one petition with over 30 signatures also from constituents in and around St. Albert . 
hon. Bill Rompkey : 
perhaps he did not know this . 
senator Corbin has made a good suggestion that some preliminary examination take place first - that is , if the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs has time to put things together . 
as I have stated in the House , the Indian Act is silent on the rights of women . 
is it limited to eels or does it affect lobster , snow crabs , forestry , oil or more ? 
canada POST 
the father - son combination of Frank and Ted Mahovlich scored with minutes to go in the second game , and Frank was voted the star of the game ! 
point OF ORDER 
for example , she feels that the comment made in my document to the effect that " the Senate is an archaic and undemocratic institution " is defamatory . 
local arenas will be packed with supportive parents , happy fans and joyous children . 
the question is on the motion . 
honourable senators , I have neither the authority nor the arrogance to give advice to the committee , but I hope that this committee will have all the time necessary because it is difficult work . 
let us not kid ourselves . 
thus , there is the request that this motion be dealt with now . 
the identification of refugees could be a costly measure for taxpayers . 
we should not , however , underestimate how much we do to honour that commitment . 
motion No. 9 
he spoke about working closely with the provinces and territories to reduce unnecessary health care expenditures that result from duplication and reinvest the savings back into the fund . 
paired 
might I ask for unanimous consent to table this proactive positive solution which outlines the diversion program within my own riding of Dewdney - Alouette so all can see what great work is being done ? 
i will refrain from commenting on his skilful skating around the questions that he has been asked thus far . 
division No. 479 
senator Cools : 
* * * 
we are going backward , not forward . 
he took notes and brought them to the parliamentary secretary , who then said " Here is my position '' . 
i want to make it absolutely clear that I have seen some very effective reserves , some good ones . 
Ms. Val Meredith 
if this bill is passed , it will give judges the discretion to extend the term of parole ineligibility for multiple murderers . 
the member for Surrey Central will speak later about the $ 850 million of CIDA money that was given with no or minimal accountability to Canadian companies . 
not only does the bill give enormous ministerial discretion , but the bill also fails to include certain agencies and crown corporations of the federal government in Schedule IV of the act . 
audiovisual PRODUCTIONS 
in fact , if democracy was ever a part of our political system in Canada , it is certainly nowhere to be found in the debate on the Nisga ' a treaty . 
government GRANTS 
a fund established in his name will continue to lend support to charities he supported . 
my daughter is dependent on me . 
i declare Motion No. 231 lost . 
if these two areas were included from NAFTA , with the present exchange rate of our Canadian dollar , our shipyards would be overloaded with work . 
i know Mr. James MacKenzie who is from Nova Scotia will do an excellent job to make sure we sit down , get all the parties together , and have a long term arrangement . 
Mr. Speaker , I take great pride in presenting a petition put forth by 1,799 concerned Canadians , mostly from the province of Quebec . 
senator Beaudoin : 
we will continue to make important investments in strengthening our economy , such as boosting our national research capability and boosting knowledge , skills and training . 
we believe that the ownership and control of corporations should be placed in the sector that can perform the task most cost effectively , with the greatest accountability to the owners and the least likelihood of incurring public debt . 
agreed . 
it would also increase the money in the public coffers . 
yea . 
let me quote the article " People in Ontario - " 
it is very courageous and appropriate to get the bill into committee now so it can be debated by all members of the House . 
Mr. John Harvard ( Charleswood St. James - Assiniboia , Lib . ) : 
the Speaker : 
listen , Learn , Live " . 
it is ridiculous for the federal government to be introducing a bill that does not protect this fundamental right . 
hon. Allan Rock ( Minister of Health , Lib . ) : 
it is difficult to say that it is happening in Canada . 
we in the NDP contend that this particular list is faulty in two grievous ways . 
hon. Lorne Nystrom 
with the exception of the past two or three years during which people have begun to feel the impact of federal government policies , they have seen their incomes go up . 
and yet , we are only on the third day . 
we know that Canadian Airlines has recommended that the offer be accepted by its shareholders . 
Mr. Rick Laliberte 
* * * 
hear , hear . 
when it was the business community ' s turn to address Bill C - 6 many stressed their support for the legislation and appreciation for its basis in the CSA standard . 
we have established a program called Direction 2006 which seeks to increase awareness of safety issues surrounding the rights of way and rail crossing issues across the country . 
the Hon. the Acting Speaker : 
members also know what the Bloc Quebecois thinks of this bill . 
second , a harmonization and discussion process was started with the provinces to establish a common framework . 
does he not realize that speculators will be able to gamble not once but twice , provided they get rid of their shares before such a decision is reached ? 
farm Crisis in Manitoba and Saskatchewan - Possibility of Program for Farm Credit - Agricultural Income Disaster Assistance - Efficacy of Program - Payouts to Applicants 
Mr. Speaker , as regards globalization , the Minister for International Trade said he was open to the idea of a WTO parliament to ensure greater transparency . 
agreed . 
some hon. members : 
the federal government also has a role as the primary funding agent of research and development as part of post - secondary education in Canada , which , if research funds are properly disbursed across the country , would help in regional development . 
we must act now in a proactive way to give these people on dialysis the kidneys they need in order to prevent further tragedies . 
the courts have confirmed that those rights may be infringed where proper justification exists . 
nobody should come in from the outside and tell people " This is your problem , and here is how you are going to solve it '' . 
what we are trying to do with this bill - and I thought it was talked about very eloquently today by the witnesses who came before the committee - is create a structure around the most important set of discussions our country could have . 
what is the purpose of it ? 
i thought we were past that in this day and age . 
Mr. R é al M é nard ( Hochelaga - Maisonneuve , BQ ) : 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
another example that illustrate the situation very well is that of hockey clubs . 
other areas included are public order , peace and safety , regulation of traffic and transportation on Nisga ' a roads , design , construction , repair , demolition of buildings and structure , solemnization of marriages within British Columbia , provision of social services , health services , prohibitions and conditions for sale , possession and consumption of intoxicants on Nisga ' a lands , and emergency preparedness and emergency measures . 
senator Finestone : 
Mr. Speaker , I withdraw it . 
paired 
honourable senators , I can assure the honourable senator that the Prime Minister understands how important the agricultural sector is to the overall economy of our country . 
western DIVERSIFICATION 
if I ever hear the degree of eloquence in the House that came out in these hearings , particularly from over yonder , I will be a very pleased man indeed . 
agriculture 
clarity is the basis of any democratic process . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
and the bells having rung : 
Mr. Speaker , a correction is in order , because the member has quoted yet another figure . 
the Speaker : 
if Reform members had any clue about this industry they would support this . 
where was the government when we lost our resources ? 
Assassins do not gun down minority community leaders . 
i declare the amendment defeated . 
automotive POLLUTION REDUCTION ACT 
Mr. Speaker , it is a pleasure to speak to the private member ' s motion , Motion No. 98 . 
Ms. Jocelyne Girard - Bujold 
honourable senators - 
hear , hear ! 
this government , the Senate and the House of Commons , the Prime Minister of Canada and the people of Canada , cannot ignore the serious crisis situation facing the agricultural community because it is a very serious national problem for the whole country . 
it was because he realized the impact of his misbehaviour on his family , community and friends and that it was not the way to behave in a decent society . 
the government has to do three things . 
they watch TV . 
out of the clear blue sky ? 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
report of Foreign Affairs Committee on Study - Debate Adjourned 
Mr. Peter Stoffer ( Sackville - Musquodoboit Valley - Eastern Shore , NDP ) : 
so , for the time being , we may continue with the practice described in the new book . 
every year auditors swarm like locusts on people who can hardly afford to put bread on the table and they wring every nickel out of their pockets . 
* * * 
to say at literally the eleventh hour that it will now become a component of that ratification process would be , I think , unfair . 
the minister spoke at length about e - commerce , the growth in the high tech sector and the importance of connectedness in terms of technology in rural communities . 
does the minister care enough to get to the bottom of this and clean up this mess by an independent inquiry ? 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
however , according to our criteria , at least at this time , it does not meet the criteria for an emergency debate today . 
this means that employees and employers will save a further $ 1.2 billion next year , bringing total savings , compared to the rate that prevailed in 1994 , to $ 5.2 billion . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
through the costly and discriminatory Firearms Act , the government is depriving law - abiding Canadian citizens of their property . 
Mr. Speaker , the hon. member refers again to a billion dollars . 
an independent advisory committee decides which stamps are to be issued . 
that is just silly . 
that a Special Committee of the Senate be appointed to reassess Canada ' s anti - drug legislation and policies , to carry out a broad consultation of the Canadian public to determine the specific needs of various regions of the country , where social problems associated with the trafficking and use of illegal drugs are more in evidence , to develop proposals to disseminate information about Canada ' s anti - drug policy and , finally , to make recommendations for an anti - drug strategy developed by and for Canadians under which all levels of government to work closely together to reduce the harm associated with the use of illegal drugs ; 
Mr. Speaker , the Prime Minister is always assuring us that the only money that is going out in the jobs grant is going to the poor and going to the needy . 
Mr. Speaker , I thought you were boycotting me . 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased to inform the House that Ford of Canada ' s Windsor workforce reported a record donation to the United Way this year of almost $ 2.9 million . 
the Senate 
Indonisia - 1 
No. 
i am sure you cannot remember back 100 years ago . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
father Bob Neville of New Waterford , Nova Scotia hit the nail on the head when he said : 
nays 
obviously , it is impossible to go very far in this assessment of reality . 
motion negatived 
it is important for us to look at the facts tonight . 
the government and many others continue to believe that the bill reflects a comprehensive , balanced and flexible framework for youth justice . 
i do not really understand . 
can the member who has brought forward this bill not make a difference in terms of his own caucus and get through to the Minister of Health to put this item on the agenda today ? 
we want the best returning officers we can have . 
they said that they agreed with it , that it was not a perfect document , that they thought they could get a better deal . 
i also rise to thank members from all sides of the House who have worked together to transform this bill into a non - partisan effort . 
members 
several committees are televised . 
they have been fed different lines as the political battles take place over the merger of the two companies . 
it should never have been in the courts . 
employment INSURANCE 
if that is so , why are we here as part of this bill ? 
i would prefer that the bill not be before us . 
my concern is that no one has given the countries covered by Bill S - 3 a systematic examination . 
what we want to do is start working as soon as possible on a long term solution by bringing people together . 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
through its small business loans program , it has , since 1993 , and most recently in Alberta , given out 3,905 in loans worth $ 430 million . 
the key word is protected . 
1,142 yes , they should have that right ; only 92 voted no . 
no more racism ! 
i will take some time to read into the record this afternoon a bit about the community in which I live . 
Mr. Richard M. Harris ( Prince George - Bulkley Valley , Ref. ) : 
in its own operations , the Government will make itself a model of environmental excellence . 
* * * 
the longer we continue doing what we are doing , the longer this will continue . 
it concerns the Canadian population as a whole . 
and we can also see how they will succeed . 
division No. 164 
if his behaviour is above reproach , why has he refused to table the documents which will lay all of these questions to rest ? 
concurrence IN VOTE 110 A - CANADIAN HERITAGE 
we can probably all remember a government which called a needless election at great expense to the taxpayer just because the governing party had the power to do so . 
senator Tkachuk : 
the Prime Minister promised the convicted criminal owner of the Grand - M è re Inn hundreds of thousands of dollars in government grants . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
the tourism industry in Canada matches that amount , so that a total of about $ 130 million is spent annually . 
introduction and first reading 
at the end of my speech I was commenting to one of my friends about this young man ' s enthusiasm . 
in the case of the definition of the terms " children " or " vulnerable persons " , officials of the Department of the Solicitor General answered our concerns as follows : 
it would be different perhaps if we were giving speeches . 
i , personally , was not amused . 
Mr. Speaker , the solicitor general has skated very well on the issue so far when he said that he knew immediately of the disclosure . 
* * * 
my colleague from Pictou - Antigonish - Guysborough has mentioned the motorcycle gangs that have increased in cities like Montreal . 
instead of closing the fishery , as I mentioned earlier , the minister took the harder road of negotiations . 
i have spoken to veterans who have been left to sit in wet and soiled diapers for the better part of a day due to staff shortages and institutional indifference . 
there is not enough money in Canada for the government to pay out these demands . 
however , for many of our veterans , their battle for survival has just begun . 
depleted uranium ' s battlefield signature is a pyrophoric ball with a cloud of nuclear waste . 
hon. No ë l A . Kinsella ( Deputy Leader of the Opposition ) : 
* * * 
Mr. Mark Muise ( West Nova , PC ) : 
minister OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE 
i say to the minister , if conservation is truly coming first , why does he not prove it ? 
Mr. Gurmant Grewal ( Surrey Central , Ref. ) : 
they dump that 10 % or 15 % overproduction on the world markets and it kills our agricultural prices . 
the hon. member knows very well that we do not comment on the presence or absence of members in the House . 
it is absolutely ludicrous that we could even get a handle on the situation . 
i hope my comment is not unparliamentary . 
the Americans go by 50,000 and we go by 100,000 . 
once again we are faced with legislation which leads us to believe it will be subject to a charter challenge . 
Mr. John Cummins ( Delta - South Richmond , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Chuck Strahl ( Fraser Valley , Ref. ) : 
he talked about experience rating which relates to insurance premiums . 
i declare Motion No. 471 lost . 
again , when there are no federal funding programs , no national standards and no set of rules to follow , the provinces will get creative . 
MONTFORT HOSPITAL 
one of the big concerns in the Nisga ' a agreement was for private property rights given to the individual Nisga ' a people , particularly with regard to any spousal disagreement or break up of marriage . 
Mr. Speaker , on October 27 , 1997 , Human Resources Development Canada had the hon. member for Rosemont approve a project to create 106 jobs in his riding . 
of course at the time the federal government would have denied that . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl ( Fraser Valley , Ref. ) : 
there are two points here . 
i agree that Canadians have something to say about the budget . 
the court also found there were no grounds for a claim of discrimination on the basis of differential treatment of rural and urban residents . 
the shadow cast over this program by mismanagement has fueled the Reform Party ' s call for an end to such programs . 
the agreement I was referring to earlier has the force of law . 
he described the limiting of parliamentary debate on the Nisga ' a treaty as an unacceptable slight to British Columbians and to all Canadians . 
in terms of the mechanics of this chamber , could the honourable senator suggest a way in which we and our aboriginal colleagues could put pressure on the other place to meet the commitments , both constitutional or non - constitutional , that are fundamental as values in this Canadian society so that we can be together as one people ? 
will he judge how they have practised medicine ? 
far be it from me to paraphrase objections that have been raised in debate by various parties , honourable senators . 
yeas 
some hon. members : 
the Speaker : 
our goal is as simple as branding Canada as one of the most forward looking and innovative nations in the world . 
in fact , their opinion will be received and reviewed . 
the greater Toronto area in the last two and a half years has been blessed with one of the most exciting economies the country has seen in the last 20 to 30 years . 
the data bank should be operational by June 2000 and will be administered by the RCMP , which now runs six forensic laboratories . 
a little later , she said : 
we know where the money is . 
in the existing law there is a provision that the judge who issues the warrant must be presented with the date of the search and seizure , a description of what was seized and the extent of the search . 
Mr. Gordon Earle ( Halifax West , NDP ) : 
this is where the human element of safety must also enter into the equation . 
senator Oliver : 
Mr. Preston Manning ( Leader of the Opposition , Ref. ) : 
what is the minister doing in practical terms to help Canadians take advantage of these technologies while we face the climate change situation ? 
it is a process that does not require the consent of a number of the provinces across Canada that a constitutional amendment would entail . 
a special thanks must go to our colleague from Leeds - Grenville , a strong contributor and co - sponsor of Bill C - 202 . 
they were basically a very friendly people with a very beautiful province . 
division No. 415 
companies are asking for investment rules that would govern investment around the world . 
there is at the present time no reason to remove Mr. Mulder . 
the suffering of any group of victims is no less significant than that of any other group . 
whether it is on closure , Bill C - 68 , the committee approach to things , satellite TV or whatever it is , the government operates like a dictatorship . 
on the Order : 
the Speaker : 
as I said on several other occasions , there may be good public policy reasons for disclosing information about individuals that is held by governments after 20 years , or sending the information to the archives , but that is not the bill we are debating today . 
however , I have some concerns . 
the secretary - general also suggested that the council consider the deployment of preventive peacekeeping operations such as UNPREDEP in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in 1995 , or other preventive monitoring presences , and he noted the need to address hate media assets in situations of ongoing conflict . 
however , many executives and senior management suddenly were laid off , and it was a new experience for them to be unemployed . 
by the time bone fractures occur , the damage is already severe and can result in serious spine , hip and wrist injuries . 
what does he mean by that ? 
yeas 
motion No. 159 
pursuant to order of reference of Thursday , February 10 , 2000 your committee has considered Bill C - 20 , an act to give effect to the requirement for clarity as set out in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Canada in the Quebec Secession Reference , and has agreed , on Thursday , February 24 , 2000 , to report it without amendments . 
therefore , the Acting Speaker acted rightfully . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. John Reynolds ( West Vancouver - Sunshine Coast , Ref. ) : 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
that is an area that the courts must define . 
the basis of my answer comes from an experience that I had in the House 10 years ago when I sat in opposition . 
Mr. Rick Borotsik 
in Schreiber , the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court referred to extraterritorial application of the Charter . 
when one quotes from a newspaper article or letter from anyone who is not a player in a debate , that quote becomes your quote . 
hon. Paul Martin 
the major legislative developments include Bill C - 20 , which recently added the new offence of deceptive telemarketing to the Competition Act . 
* * * 
my problem is the means the government has taken to reach that goal . 
in fact , they even went on in the letter to encourage the Prime Minister to consider the use of the notwithstanding clause to send a clear message that Canada ' s charter of rights and freedoms would never again be used to defend sexual abuse of Canadian children . 
( division 546 ) 
Dr. Lise Fortier established the first family planning clinic in Quebec and worked tirelessly to obtain the right to choose for Canadian women . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
over those years , of course , given the changes in technology and in communications across the country , all sorts of smaller changes have been made to it , trying to keep it up to date and so on . 
the shareholders of Air Canada will need to reach a decision before long and they must have all of the information in hand with which to make that decision an informed one . 
it is certainly undemocratic . 
well done . 
for instance , we would like to strengthen or improve the exercise of federal legislative and administrative authority in the following areas : defence , foreign affairs , monetary policy , regulation of financial institutions , criminal law , definition of national standards , equalization payments , international trade and interprovincial trade . 
his speech in that respect was full and accurate , and I only say that I agree with all of it . 
* * * 
when the Charlottetown accord went to a referendum , we were vindicated in that 70 % of Canadians who voted in that referendum voted against it . 
he says " This parliament is given the power '' . 
is it a matter of political power ? 
i am not sure if any other honourable senator wishes to speak on this matter ; if so , I would not wish to interfere with that desire . 
Helmut Kohl is a perfect example . 
the requirement to be controlled in fact by Canadians will not be changed . 
our commitment to housing is visible in communities right across the country . 
what we are asking for , and the request comes from consumers , is a real public inquiry that will include - and we must not forget them this year - independent producers , in order to shed light on the production costs of a litre of gas , of a litre of diesel and of a litre of fuel oil . 
the Speaker : 
the tourism industry in Quebec is guided by Tourisme Qu é bec , a department which directs government actions relating to tourism . 
UNESCO points out that war begins in our minds ; so , too , must the new idea begin in our minds : that peace is absolutely necessary in a technological age of mass destruction . 
if the minister who created this four months of aviation chaos will not now step in to help InterCanadian , will he step aside and let someone else bring some common sense to this chaos ? 
genetically MODIFIED FOODS 
( a ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years , or to both ; or 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
members 
Mr. Richard M. Harris : 
Mr. Myron Thompson : 
there is an absence on reserves of the most basic of property rights . 
introduction and first reading 
Mr. Speaker , my question is for the Deputy Prime Minister , the minister responsible for the millennium partnership program . 
madam Speaker , this is totally unbelievable . 
i mentioned biomedical research . 
with regard to the groups consulted by the Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration on Bill C - 63 in the first session of this parliament during the period from February 1999 through to May 1999 : ( a ) which of the groups received government - issued grants and / or subsidies ; ( b ) what was the total grant or subsidy ; ( c ) what was the reason for the grant or subsidy ; and ( d ) which government department issued the grant or subsidy ? 
adjournment PROCEEDINGS 
honourable senators , among the many crimes in our society , murder and rape are two of the most vile . 
the book should have been more properly named , " A Place for Liberals , A Story of the NCC . " 
it should not be injected into the debate when it is surrounded by controversy and all these peripheral effects . 
in our prayers , honourable senators , we should ask that this government come to its senses and reclaim Canada ' s position as a leader in human rights everywhere in the world . 
Mr. Speaker , I thank the member for his question . 
however , we hope that the issue will be thoroughly reviewed by the committees of the House and the Senate in the weeks to come . 
* * * 
this legislation , to my understanding , does not prevent the province of Quebec from drafting its own question . 
we do not in Abitibi . 
... the Minister of Justice , who is responsible for the application of the Extradition Act , may refuse to make a surrender order when the conduct in respect of which the request for extradition is made is the subject of criminal proceedings in Canada against that person . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
in short , the Reform Party intends to support the main thrust of the bill although we have some concerns and we will be introducing some amendments to address some of those concerns . 
nice try . 
colleagues , we are coming very close now so please , let us back off just a bit . 
to suggest otherwise is nonsense . 
in the words of the Secretary General of Amnesty International : 
Mr. Jim Hart 
it is a very important bill for our democracy . 
these two young people cannot be named because they were under the age of 18 and therefore apparently not responsible for any action they took . 
* * * 
agriculture 
for example , if a plug has to be fixed and an electrician friend does it during the campaign , how do we monitor that ? 
this is yet another problem ! 
i hope that there are still some sensible people left across the way and that their beautiful speeches will translate into something concrete . 
Ms. Elinor Caplan 
certainly I would be disappointed if that is the decision they have made , but I will wait until they have directly contacted me before I comment on that . 
- his constituency received just under $ 141 million in other jobs grants plus another $ 463,000 in social development grants . 
there are numerous examples . 
three signatures are needed to change the government agreement once this bill is passed - those of the federal government , the provincial government and the Nisga ' a . 
if we do not have this term in the act , who will register these people ? 
i am greatly troubled by many of the provisions in the act . 
the environment minister disagrees with the fisheries minister and has said openly that this is not an environmental concern at all . 
( b ) by replacing line 39 on page 153 with the following : 
there are four or five multinational companies that control the food and drug industry in the world . 
port OF VANCOUVER 
motion No. 283 
it means a one - sided decision . 
what this means , should it come to pass , is a mass exodus of as many as 16,000 farmers across Saskatchewan and Manitoba within the next short period of time . 
special projects are funded from existing funded positions within the RCMP . 
i am sure he is sleepless in Seattle and it is probably not the trade talks that are bothering him . 
my riding is undergoing rapid changes and its second largest city will soon take on the name of Cit é du Fjord . 
we know not everything will be perfect , but when we hear of any irregularities we will research them . 
there are two cases before the Supreme Court of Canada . 
he knows that area better than anybody sitting on that side of the House . 
Ms. Libby Davies ( Vancouver East , NDP ) : 
i do not think I was confused as to what I was doing . 
members at the committee agreed and the term was incorporated into the bill . 
i want to raise some points that show how unclear this bill is . 
i have looked with sympathy and interest to the motion by the opposition Bloc Quebecois , as I say , granted the predisposition to examine every motion from the other side . 
leave is not granted . 
senator Finestone : 
i would like to just take a moment to congratulate our member for all his hard work . 
the current justice minister ' s failure to ignore reality is just adding insult to injury . 
that the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs , Science and Technology be authorized to examine and report upon the state of the health care system in Canada . 
is there unanimous consent of the House ? 
Mr. Roy Bailey ( Souris - Moose Mountain , Ref. ) : 
the object of Howe ' s mission to England was the repeal of the union so far as Nova Scotia was concerned . 
if it is the wish of honourable senators , of course , we can proceed now . 
it would no longer be a problem if it were something the provinces could deal with . 
i am a realist and I know there are not enough resources to satisfy everybody to the extent that every individual would like , but we will do the best job we can . 
since 1985 , the average sentence handed down by Canadian appeal courts for this type of offence is 19 months . 
paired 
farm Crisis in Manitoba and Saskatchewan - Request for Visit by Prime Minister 
at the evening meetings - and God knows if they are a road show or some sort of political theatre - very seldom is there intelligent , sensible , meaningful debate like there is in high schools . 
the resulting legislation , Bill C - 82 , which was part of a package , was passed by the House and came into effect on July 1 , 1999 . It was a long road to see a good section of what was called for by the member for Prince George - Bulkley Valley . 
motion No. 156 negatived 
once again this is another provision of this legislation that is subject to a court challenge . 
Mr. Preston Manning ( Leader of the Opposition , Ref. ) : 
it depends , I suppose , on many circumstances . 
the people living in a region must be respected , as must the region in which they live . 
on March 12 , Poland also became a full and unrestricted member of NATO . 
this focus on the bill ' s principle has led to a practice that limits the kind of amendments that can be moved at this stage . 
the supreme court was very clear that it is the democratic right of provinces to address the issue of separation , but that it could not be done unilaterally . 
i believe the defence of our rights and privileges can only be accomplished with your finding a prima facie case of privilege and / or contempt , Mr. Speaker , and I urge you to do so . 
in other words , the income tax department would not take all the profit in a good year . 
this time , however , Canadians are fortunate to have the Reform Party filling the role of Her Majesty ' s Official Opposition , and we will not let the government pull the wool over the eyes and the rug out from under the feet of the Canadian public . 
members 
neither needs to be consulted before the federal government enters into constitutional negotiations on any matter . 
i am grateful that we all will be paid . 
CSIS also stated that it had passed the video tapes to the plaintiff in response to a request from him . 
the next question is on Motion No. 8 . A negative vote on Motion No. 8 requires the question to be put on Motions Nos. 9 and 10 . 
the Chair may or may not recognize a member rising on a point of order based on the discretion of the Chair , depending upon what is going on in the House . 
i will tell you that I have concerns . 
yeas 
is there unanimous consent ? 
this would lead to greater diligence in the bureaucracy in introducing regulations , greater scrutiny both by the bureaucracy and within the elected Chamber of these regulations , and ultimately a more effective and efficient regulatory burden which would provide greater benefit to Canadians and wreak less havoc with Canadian enterprises . 
yeas 
madam Speaker , as we know , unfortunately , the government introduced a bill that changes the referendum rules in Quebec . 
honourable senators , is the Leader of the Government in the Senate stating that it is within the jurisdiction of the provinces to import this waste and that the issue of trucking and conveying hazardous wastes through other provinces is also under provincial jurisdiction ? 
paired 
Mr. John Williams ( St. Albert , Ref. ) : 
the second is that demand has fallen due to the world financial situation , especially in Asia . 
i know he has looked at this bill carefully . 
just before Christmas some of you perhaps saw the article in The Globe and Mail about a businessman who had done just that . 
we in the Progressive Conservative Party will take his note and his remarks and send that to the people of Ontario and western Canada . 
her husband and I play golf as many times as we can . 
i wish I had a solution to the honourable senator ' s dilemma . 
royal CANADIAN REGIMENT 
he cannot " reasonably expect " that this will not happen , if the laws of the state clearly permit it . 
members 
Mr. Jean - Guy Chr é tien : - $ 3,783 , and nothing for the Progressive Conservative Party . 
it is truly pathetic . 
Mr. Mark Muise ( West Nova , PC ) : 
if our response to the secessionist movement is always one of defence , then at the end of the day , the secessionist movement will succeed . 
madam Speaker , my Conservative colleague mentioned the roots of criminality . 
is that not a message that everybody in the House should take seriously ? 
nays 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
hon. Harbance Singh Dhaliwal ( Minister of Fisheries and Oceans , Lib . ) : 
the same dynamic is in place still around the current cabinet table . 
the article reads " The Mouvement national des Qu é b é coises et des Qu é b é cois is launching a campaign to promote sovereignty . 
i say that I do not understand it , but actually I do understand it to a point . 
it turns out that Transelec is not quite doing the job and the government has been worried about being on the hook ever since . 
thanks to the abuse , his election cost taxpayers $ 25 million . 
let me now take a look at the consultation process . 
call in the members . 
on motion of Senator Cools , debate adjourned . 
the Honourable Senator Kinsella made reference to the principle of 50 , plus one . 
that would do more to stimulate economic development than all of the collectivism in the agreement put together . 
Ms. Jocelyne Girard - Bujold : 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
this issue is of national concern . 
the punch line , which will hit the citizens of Cape Breton straight in the stomach , is that once the government pushes Bill C - 11 through the House , it will no longer be obligated to help clean up the mess that its 30 years of mismanagement of Devco have created . 
in Quebec we have a particular civil code . 
we simply cannot afford either one of these situations . 
think that , during the past 50 years , everything has been said . 
if the government is guilty of anything , it is perhaps a lack of sensitivity by the bureaucrats with regard to selling a system of income insurance rather than commodity insurance . 
requiring free and informed consent is an extra protection for patients . 
it is a net gain to the employer . 
Mr. Speaker , the emission of greenhouse gases from our energy related industries is a concern to all Canadians , especially in terms of our obligations under the Kyoto arrangements . 
canada ' s gross domestic product advanced 4.7 in the third quarter . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
he must show leadership on this issue , make Ottawa bilingual and clear up any of the uncertainty . 
in 1998 alone , there were 67 such tragic deaths . 
the Nisga ' a final agreement contains provisions to ensure that federal and provincial ministers retain their overall authority . 
members 
Mr. Bill Blaikie 
Mr. Scott Brison ( Kings - Hants , PC ) : 
honourable senators , I rise on a point of order . 
hon. Jack Austin , with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding rule 58 ( 1 ) ( a ) , moved : 
they benefit from improved information , lower transaction costs and thus lower prices , and larger choices which can include products tailored to individual requirements and instant delivery for intangible services and products in digital form . 
Lester Pearson , the great prime minister of this country , did some things but I am out of time and I cannot share those comments about the Right Hon. Lester Pearson . 
as a matter of fact , we have done this three times already . 
Ms. Louise Hardy 
the Speaker : 
i cannot do that , because our real duty remains to be done . 
madam Speaker , it is with pleasure that I rise today to present a petition signed by people from across Nova Scotia , who urge the government to fulfill the 1989 House of Commons pledge to end child poverty by the year 2000 . 
at the present time the military police are authorized to obtain a DNA warrant only in the case of offences committed in Canada . 
the power still lies with the federal government . 
i am under the impression that we are still discussing my options . 
second , it was our committee that faced closure and our committee that proposed that the review begin post - haste . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 89 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
it understood that there were two sides to an economic equation , both expenditure and revenue . 
Mr. Speaker , I listened to the hon. member ' s speech , and I would like to tell him about a number of experiences , which show that caution must be exercized in that area . 
they are sick and tired of seeing people like Karla Homolka making deals and getting off easy . 
but their one concern here is visibility , visibility and visibility for the federal government . 
Mr. Speaker , I want to make it very clear to this member and to everyone that I deplore human smuggling . 
if the hon. member for St. Albert will pay close attention , he will see that this is is not unusual . 
the government ' s intention to build on the personal gateway project to the government information and community content , www . access . ca , 
we want to ensure that intellectual property rights are protected . 
i wish to quote from Beauchesne ' s Parliamentary Rules & Forms , 6 th Edition , paragraph 485 ( 1 ) , which states : 
the World Court used it . 
this person says that some of the best lists to get hold of if one wants to sell a product by direct marketing or telemarketing are for example The Economist , The Financial Post , Scientific American or T é l é m é dia , or the Wellness Letter . 
Mr. Lou Sekora ( Port Moody - Coquitlam - Port Coquitlam , Lib . ) : 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
as well , Bill C - 20 allows parliament to determine , following the referendum on secession in a province , if a clear majority of the population of the province has clearly expressed a will to cease to be a part of Canada , and sets out the factors to be considered in making its determination . 
commemorative STAMP 
transitional Jobs Fund - Unemployment Rate Qualifying Level for Edmonton West 
the people on the land need cash in their hands before Christmas . 
is there unanimous consent of the House ? 
there are young children going without toys . 
above and beyond the accounting audit is what I used to refer to as a " value - for - money " audit , which involves an examination of the programs to see if they are achieving the goals to which the policy had directed the programs . 
we went through a crisis on the west coast this year in terms of illegal immigrants coming into Canada . 
some hon. members : 
after all , they helped make it great . 
senator Kinsella : 
therefore , the petitioners call upon parliament to give Canadian taxpayers a break by instituting tax relief of at least 25 % in the next three years , starting immediately . 
we all know the terrible impact of the reaction when they were essentially told to turn around and paddle their canoes back home , which they did , but they never gave up . 
they need to know where the government stands on the issue of the Marshall decision as it applies to Newfoundland . 
i have said it three times now . 
achieving sovereignty does not mean Quebecers will go back to oxcarts . 
* * * 
honourable senators , with respect to the Canada Pension Plan , obviously that is being reviewed . 
the committee in this House should show up the committee in Quebec City and do the kind of travelling that is not being done there . 
we would all acknowledge the fact that there are young people , very few in number , who really have to be set aside so that society is protected from their behaviour . 
if only for the sake of those Canadians , civilian and military , an inquiry is more than justified . 
the recession caused two tier wage schemes to be adopted as a means of fighting the economic recession and saved jobs from being lost . 
if the government could take that same kind of approach with the health care system in general , as it has with this bill , the opposition would encourage it . 
the optional protocol will be presented to the United Nations General Assembly this year . 
it is a matter of people , fairness and equity . 
* * * 
antipersonnel MINES 
on June 3 , 1998 , I introduced Motion No. P - 24 for the production of papers . 
yeas 
i ask for the support of my colleagues opposite to table this document which , I am sure , will enlighten them on this issue . 
however , if you go back to the Debates of the Senate for November 3 , it is clear that when Senator Oliver proposed the motion he said : 
what we have not seen enough of , in my personal view , on a wide variety of issues including tourism , is more co - operation . 
the United Nations Security Council has as its central role the maintenance of peace and security . 
SASKATCHEWAN TELEPHONE RATES 
the government calls this a debate , but we all know that it has no intention of listening . 
division No. 39 
all the rest was achieved at the expense of the provinces , through cuts in their transfer payments for health , post - secondary education and social programs , and at the expense of workers and employers who contribute to the employment insurance fund . 
i have to question the sanity that would go into announcing supposedly never ending research into this issue and having it headquartered in Prince Edward Island , in the minister ' s riding . 
agreed . 
when large and difficult issues loomed in this chamber on the constitutional question of changes to the Newfoundland school system , his advice to me was invaluable . 
there is very little hope for those people . 
there are a number of concerns . 
Michael Smith won the Nobel Prize for his contribution to our genetic understanding of diseases . 
Mr. Garry Breitkreuz ( Yorkton - Melville , Ref. ) : 
senator Sparrow : 
transparency increases accountability . 
Clair on the excellent speech he made in moving the Address in Reply to the Speech from the Throne . 
government of the Northwest Territories has evolved into responsible government . 
( motion No. 94 , as amended , agreed to ) 
there is a significant imbalance . 
Mr. Rob Anders ( Calgary West , Ref. ) : 
the Speaker : 
the Government of Canada has made a number of changes to existing Safety Net programs to help farmers who were unable to seed due to wet weather conditions last spring . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 202 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. John Maloney ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada , Lib . ) : 
whatever its motives and means , direct euthanasia consists in putting an end to the lives of handicapped , sick , or dying persons . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
it is very critical that we let Canadians know about the principles , because when we understand the essence of the principles , we understand better the thrust of the bill itself . 
notice of Motion to Refer Parliament Vote 10 to Joint Committee on Library of Parliamentand Privy Council Vote 25 toJoint Committee on Official Languages 
motion for concurrence 
this is certainly a goal of the government . 
it is competition rather than government intervention that will be most effective in moderating airfares in the long run . 
there is no clear rule . 
we all know that there are at least 50 more of these deals to be negotiated in the province of British Columbia alone , and many more across Canada . 
yeas 
in order to " win " , there is a propensity to enshrine on paper and for the public record , issues and allegations which , when read later , no doubt are psychologically traumatic to the children involved . 
we have a grain transportation system that is broken and needs to be fixed . 
( motion agreed to ) 
motion No. 151 negatived 
that drop to $ 64 million is $ 100 million below the $ 164 million earned by Manitoba farmers in 1998 and well below the five year average of $ 231 million . 
they do not seem to have been aware of that fact , and one wonders why . 
we have been all alone . 
hon. Herb Gray ( Deputy Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
what will this cost the Senate of Canada ? 
on August 13 , the disruption or emergency was only an apprehended one that led the government to invoke the extraordinary power set out in section 47 of the Transportation Act . 
members 
Mr. Monte Solberg 
agreed 
so I explain the legislation to the person , who goes away . 
motion No. 377 negatived 
Ms. Jocelyne Girard - Bujold 
one of the difficulties confronting the Senate is that people are not listening . 
fisheries 
he went on to cite a number of decisions that leave a great deal to be desired in their interpretation and application . 
what we are saying to the House is that we deserve a say . 
i know the government is afraid to start discussing these options because it has shown no leadership when it comes to vision , when it comes to how to make the country work better . 
that has been the complaint I have heard over and over again from my Quebec colleagues , many of whom feel there is no other option but to split from this country . 
all the Conservatives spoke of for nine years was about what terrible financial shape the country was in . 
some hon. members : 
Mr. Speaker , I rise pursuant to Standing Order 36 to present a petition from the great people of the province of Nova Scotia , especially the wonderful cities of Lower Sackville , Bedford , Beaverbank , Timberlea and the surrounding communities . 
i would argue that if we have a big surplus coming our way and we have a tremendous debt burden and extraordinarily high taxes , then it makes sense to devote that money to lowering our debt and our tax burden . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
in the riding of Chomedey , for example , 12 per cent of the ballots were rejected . 
money has been allocated for that but it does not get to them . 
i felt they were critical amendments that took the discretion out of whether or not we would release these records . 
there are essentially four elements to our government ' s shipbuilding policy carried out by the various government departments . 
motion No. 115 negatived 
as the leader of the Bloc Quebecois said last week " No evil seen , no evil done '' . 
i want to get back to the concerns that many of the petitioners have raised in the House . 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
honourable senators , my question is a supplementary to Senator Forrestall ' s questions . 
my colleague and I also participated in the study done by the survival committee , and we went to Detroit . 
bill C - 20 
air Canada - Effect of Bill Setting Out Obligations 
the government recognized in the Sparrow decision the right of the fishery for food and ceremonial purposes . 
Mr. Jim Gouk 
Mr. Speaker , the provinces are not rejecting any child care programs . 
i believe that , because children are involved , we need to - 
division No. 95 
honourable senators , in reply to the question of Senator Roche , I will make two observations . 
if a drunk driver causes the death of another person , that drunk driver is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable to imprisonment for life . 
we remember what happened in election terms . 
everybody is starting to feel the pinch as their receivables escalate and skyrocket into numbers they have never seen before , with no end in sight . 
is it agreed , honourable senators ? 
who could claim , without raising an eyebrow , that this system is truly equitable , transparent and accessible , a system that allows corporations , which do not have the right to vote , to meddle in the electoral process by making contributions far beyond the capability of the ordinary voter , and thus unduly influencing the political policy of the parties and the candidates seeking votes ? 
it does not matter whom we are talking about . 
honourable senators , my question is for the Leader of the Government in the Senate . 
i hope all members of the House agree that we must give very careful thought to the Department of Transport ' s procedure and , at the same time , to the importance of priority in achieving nuclear disarmament . 
that little wee problem happens to be the breadbasket of Canada . 
i want to progress and make a better future by learning from past mistakes . 
i am getting to the point . 
paired 
on this point I believe the member has a valid argument that perhaps a parliamentary committee should be struck to thoroughly investigate ways in which we can strengthen the protection that Canadians need in ensuring that their personal information remains just that , personal . 
on average , Quebec received about 14 % of the federal funding for R and D , and so far , nothing has changed . 
madam Speaker , I note from the supply day motion that the Progressive Conservatives have attempted to cover all of the hot button issues they think are facing Canada today . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
that gives some indication to the viewing public and those in the House and the gallery of the need for improving the legislation . 
before I move to the actual substance of the bill I would first like to ask a question . 
motion No. 388 negatived 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) , with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding rule 58 ( 1 ) ( a ) , moved : 
i resent that . 
i should like to make the answer as brief and direct as I can , but it may require more than a " yes " or a " no " . 
hon. Don Boudria ( Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
hon. John Buchanan : 
honourable senators , lest anyone confuse our geography with isolation or insularity , let me put your minds as rest . 
i might suggest that the bill could also mention citizenship , passports , pensions , creditor confidence , the Canadian dollar , international agreements , an access corridor if the province is in the centre of Canada , defence issues , military assets and a potential rejoining of Canada . 
some hon. members : 
therefore I would ask for the unanimous consent of the House to transfer all the Reform motions which are not in the name of the hon. member for North Vancouver or the hon. member for Elk Island to be moved by the hon. member for North Vancouver and seconded by the hon. member for Elk Island . 
happily , a provision of this sort is found in Bill C - 2 . 
canada may have one national airline situated in a city that does not want to remain in our country . 
i am hoping that we can show them the fruits of their labour in the upcoming year . 
that is the truth about democracy in this place . 
to have a strong metropolis , attract brains and stimulate productive investments , what is required is investment in that metropolis , so as to develop the various areas on which Montreal based its economic recovery . 
hon. Lloyd Axworthy 
motion No. 23 negatived 
on the Order : 
violence Against Gays and Lesbians 
of course , honourable senators . 
Mr. Lee Morrison : 
program to Tighten Security with Regard to Terrorist Activities - Request for Details 
we remember what happened to Rome . 
how wrong it was , because that was not what came out of the forum . 
Mr. Speaker , NDP members present this evening vote no to this motion . 
as I mentioned earlier , in Quebec ' s central region and in the Mont é r é gie , more than 50 % of farmland is contaminated by the presence of cannabis producers who take advantage of corn crops to grow a very high quality product , which ranks among the best in the world . 
" 20.1 ( 1 ) On the expiration of three years after the coming into force of this Act , the provisions contained herein shall be referred to such committee of the Senate as may be designated or established for that purpose . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
we continue to work with the companies to try to retain the jobs and to see if we can expand the plant . 
( motion No. 29 negatived ) 
i simply cannot understand why party discipline is involved in it . 
Mrs. Diane Ablonczy ( Calgary - Nose Hill , Ref. ) : 
what is the government ' s plan of action to help these seasonal workers make it through these very difficult times ? 
he wants me to say it is a clear question . 
* * * 
as Canadian citizens we are justly proud of our first place ranking in the United Nations human development index , but such classifications are meaningless for the individuals who struggle every day to find something to eat and do not know where they will be sleeping at night . 
we will point out , piece by piece , our concerns with this legislation because it is flawed and needs to be dealt with more thoroughly . 
honourable senators , I support the motion which is presently before us . 
since that time , there has been a dramatic 20 % drop in reservations with InterCanadian . 
examining more closely the vote itself in Confederation in 1867 , the British North America Act said that the control of the federal franchise , the vote , would remain a provincial matter until parliament decided otherwise . 
it has been very hard for me to sit in such close physical proximity to the Reform Party members and hear them and their outrageous comments for these past many months . 
i am asking the question to the current minister , since the Minister for International Trade does not want to answer for his actions . 
i think it would enlighten our colleagues opposite . 
i was hoping to speak to it earlier . 
Dr. Powell did the same in Toronto . 
in 1998 inflows to Canada were $ 22.9 billion , but Canadians invested a record $ 39.8 billion abroad . 
my guess is that the vast amount of that money will be spent on the ice storm . 
Mr. Speaker , I am very happy today to participate in the debate on Bill C - 4 . 
yeas 
there is no doubt that , as they said at the U.S. Democratic convention in 1968 , the whole world is watching . 
i am very patient , but there are limits . 
it has been mentioned on a continent - wide syndicated radio program . 
yet the minister still drags his heels and feet along the ground . 
today we have in our gallery two Speakers from Barbados and a delegation . 
i want to address the member ' s last question first about the financial information strategy . 
i would also like to tell the House how much the phenomenon of globalization changes the nature of exclusion as well . 
the Speaker : 
if the hon. member would look at what is happening in Atlantic Canada , it is working . 
i think that 4 % to 5 % is high . 
we know that 52 % of Newfoundlanders voted in favour of joining confederation . 
while the bill will deal firmly with crimes of youth violence , it will also ensure that the criminal justice system has the flexibility to deal with the many other cases involving non - violent offences . 
Mr. Jason Kenney 
some hon. members : 
the advice of the court would require " reading in " such a provision . 
our goal is to make Canada the country of choice for researchers from around the world . 
this is a fairly major entry , a whole long paragraph . 
a negative vote on Motion No. 96 requires the question to be put on Motions Nos. 97 and 98 . 
Mr. Speaker , the hon. member who just asked the question and his party were one of a number of people and parties that asked us a year ago to do something to assist producers so that the precipitous drop in incomes in 1998 in comparison to previous years could be assisted . 
it seems to me that the member for Roberval and his colleagues are underestimating Quebecers , their intelligence and their vision of Canada and the world . 
the inhabitants of the beaches area have been deprived of this essential service because the water table has been contaminated for several years . 
senator Oliver : 
as for the financial resources earmarked by the governments of Canada and Quebec to fight organized crime , they seem clearly inadequate . 
the public will support it . 
in many ways , the motto of " Be Prepared , " which Baden - Powell himself noted was founded on his own initials and means that " you are always to be in a state of readiness in mind and body to do your duty , " has been a hallmark of this distinguished senator who I have always been so proud for so many years to call a true friend . 
yet , Amnesty International and others were pointing out that political opponents were being inappropriately jailed and not receiving fair trials and treatment . 
please proceed , Senator Fraser . 
there are grave concerns across the country about the allocation formula that is in place for the new 21 st century research chairs to be included in next week ' s budget . 
table of Contents 
we know that 10 and 11 year olds in our society surely know what is right and wrong . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
INDIAN AFFAIRS 
Mr. Gurmant Grewal ( Surrey Central , Ref. ) : 
confederation was effectively a marriage of economic and political convenience between partners who had little desire to live together but could not afford to live apart . 
hon. Lyle Vanclief 
there are many seniors living in almost dire straits . 
one of the issues that was raised often and was strongly supported was the national child benefit , not to mention the appreciation of Canadians for the government modernizing the employment insurance program . 
in fact , I think we are ahead of all these other countries . 
Wednesday , November 17 , 1999 
canada ' s knowhow was instrumental in getting this incredible project started . 
i will start by saying that we have many problems with this bill for several reasons . 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased to table , in both official languages , a number of order in council appointments made recently by the government 
members 
lord knows that Canadians pay enough taxes . 
i see them as community groups , and other groups in all of our provinces and all of our constituencies , who would like to have an opinion and be able to speak out on major issues that arise during an election . 
the whole thing was done during the night . 
Mr. Dale Johnston ( Wetaskiwin , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Irwin Cotler ( Mount Royal , Lib . ) : 
nays 
on the Order : 
if we could spend some energy on trying to get that flow of traffic going , I am sure the economic benefits to our country would be enormous . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
we will do this again . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
some hon. members : 
the next question is on Motion No. 427 . 
honourable senators , as the vice - chair of the Committee on Internal Economy , Budgets and Administration , I , too , would like to welcome Gary O ' Brien and wish him every success in his work . 
we are doing other things in this act to enlarge the capacity of Canadians to participate in the voting process like extending voting hours and allowing people out of the country to vote more easily and more freely at embassies anywhere in the world . 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
is there unanimous consent ? 
honourable senators , I will speak quickly and in a non - political fashion . 
the exhibition will present over 70 of the Canadian War Museum ' s best paintings , many of which have not been displayed in over 80 years . 
this happens quite often . 
and if there are similar laws in the other provinces , these objects must also be included in them . 
to avoid further embarrassment , Lewis disobeyed a summons to appear at a hearing on October 21 . 
the Prime Minister makes 5,000 patronage appointments every year . 
members 
motion for concurrence 
i am prepared to hear from Senator Bolduc . 
i do not understand why the Reform Party opposes something like ensconcing democratic principles in a first nation that has been debating the issue for over 100 years . 
the problem is we have to come up with a better way of doing it , realizing that safety always has to be paramount . 
the minister simply exerts the power she has under the current parks legislation , which will be reflected and enhanced in Bill C - 8 . 
members 
we think that is wrong . 
everybody who was requested to testify has testified . 
what we can criticize it for , however , is paving the way for discretionary action , petty political jockeying , under the table arrangements , as well as unjustified and unjustifiable gifts . 
a Canadian Framework for Future Immigration '' . 
Mr. Derek Lee ( Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
the convention altered this perception by recognizing children as individual persons , with rights to freedom of expression , association , assembly , religion and privacy . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
this is a constant muddle . 
Mr. Speaker , I want to touch on a couple of issues surrounding this debate that I , and probably many of my constituents , find somewhat puzzling . 
i found another one which states : 
Mr. Speaker , I do not know what standing order you are basing your ruling on that the point of order I am making deals with something you do not want to hear about . 
young OFFENDERS ACT 
on that basis , I commend this idea to you , Mr. Speaker . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
Mr. Speaker , I also ask that all Notices of Motions for the Production of Papers be allowed to stand . 
that came from the business community . 
the Speaker : 
oh , oh . 
otherwise , there could be a very great incentive to an accused person to offer a plea to criminal negligence or manslaughter , and a similar incentive to a crown attorney to accept it . 
with this vision , Canada will be the best place to live in the next century . 
unfortunately , they were not accepted , apparently out of concern for reaching a decision as efficiently and rapidly as possible . 
some of the stories are too drastic to tell . 
* * * 
on this side of the House we support de - politicizing economic decision making by eliminating grants , guarantees and subsidies . 
that is the fundamental question Canada faces as we begin the new millennium . 
recommendation 1 states : 
this centralizing recipe now includes a social union sauce , which could well further spoil relations between Ottawa and Quebec City . 
when I spoke of infiltration , one of the useful tools in law enforcement is infiltration of criminal groups . 
why does the hon. member not wake up , smell the coffee and understand what is happening on farms in western Canada ? 
they are asking why this message did not get through in terms of getting the extra $ 1.3 billion . 
yet , though our athletes and many of our fighting personnel wore the maple leaf with pride , it was not until 1964 that a veteran of World War I , Prime Minister Lester Pearson , took up the difficult task of persuading Canadians to formalize their private love affair with the red maple leaf in a new national flag . 
some individuals have been found to be residing in Canada because they have a bank account here or own property in the country without actually having ever lived in Canada . 
in spite of this fact he is supposed to remain at arm ' s length , and it does not look good . 
there will be an opportunity to consider the point of view of the hon. member . 
we saw that in the magazine debate . 
we know that to border on the catastrophic , particularly if you are in the air . 
the member for Saint - Maurice was then in an opposition party that was concerned with the fact that there was a majority government with 100 per cent of the power and less then half the vote . 
the land is vacant . 
ways AND MEANS 
the Standing Orders of the House are virtually silent on the subject of Members ' dress . 
there is a grey area , a legal vacuum , as was illustrated several years ago by the Derickson ruling , in which a woman who had separated from her husband was not entitled to anything . 
the Speaker : 
the Deputy Speaker : 
provinces recognize the importance of helping communities to find solutions to deal with this issue . 
members 
i realize that a week can be costly , but a week is not all that long for negotiating such an important agreement . 
the recorded division on Motion No. 6 stands deferred . 
notice of the bill being introduced in parliament was tabled in the House . 
we have to go to the bargaining table and stand up for our producers . 
" 27 . 
who said that ? 
hon. Paul Martin 
Mr. John Williams : 
it is my understanding that when a motion comes before the House of Commons the mover and seconder of the motion must be in the House , and if not you dispense with it . 
the Security Intelligence Review Committee will do a review , as I indicated previously , and it will have access to all CSIS documents . 
i think not . 
Mr. Gurmant Grewal 
Ms. Alexa McDonough ( Halifax , NDP ) : 
as recently as last September , all the ministers of health agreed on priorities that we are working toward together to get that job done . 
it means that s . 7 affords no guarantee of compensation or even of a fair procedure for the taking of property by the government . 
however , if it is the wish of the honourable senators to speak , quite obviously they are free to do so . 
it will also help stem part of the brain drain by making this investment in our scientific community and will put the resources into medical research . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
do members know what such an amount of money represents ? 
the Nisga ' a treaty is much more complex than the Mi ' kmaq treaty . 
hon. No ë l A . Kinsella ( Deputy Leader of the Opposition ) : 
many of those draggermen came from across Nova Scotia , and indeed across the country . 
Mr. Speaker , according to the same internal audit report , in 97 % of the projects audited , the government paid out money to promoters without checking to see whether there were outstanding debts to Human Resources Development Canada , something that must be done . 
that is very significant . 
members 
the auditor general says that the federal government has no idea whether its health care spending ever makes it to the waiting lines or the emergency rooms . 
i am a richer Canadian for having lived in a number of provinces in this country , and I know my children are richer for having lived in a number of provinces and for being able to speak both of Canada ' s official languages . 
it has always worked to build this country in unity and tried to find a way - 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
No. 
if anyone was thinking that as a Canadian citizen they had any of these rights or that somehow these rights were protected in Canadian law , I am sad to inform them that they are wrong . 
Quelle surprise . 
it is impossible for anyone to try to understand the logic behind a system that releases migrants after the hearing regardless of whatever it was that hearing determined . 
Mr. Speaker , as I indicated previously , the director of CSIS has indicated that the necessary steps have been taken to protect security . 
motion No. 202 negatived 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
hon. No ë l A . Kinsella ( Deputy Leader of the Opposition ) : 
what is more , a specific decision might not settle issues applicable to other regions . 
motion No. 120 
unfortunately , the government did not follow up on it . 
in conclusion , this is important legislation . 
that may be what it takes in order to save the family farm and make sure farmers do not have to sacrifice themselves until such time as we get the EU and the Americans in line on this . 
however , to apply in domestic law , they also require implementing legislation , and sometimes legislation from both a provincial legislative assembly and the federal parliament . 
i also declare Motions Nos. 8 , 13 , 16 , 17 , 20 , 26 , 35 and 56 carried . 
paired 
after that our children and our grandchildren who will replace us will find the full impact of the provisions of the treaty . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
motion No. 88 negatived 
now , we would like to know the government ' s intentions with respect to what it would see as a clear majority . 
Mr. Steve Mahoney : 
does this means that the hon. member is for civil disobedience ? 
paired 
hon. Fernand Roberge : 
the Speaker : 
Mr. Bill Casey 
agreed . 
we all thank the hon. member for that clarification . 
Mr. R é al M é nard ( Hochelaga - Maisonneuve , BQ ) moved : 
if there are no questions or comments , we will be resuming debate . 
this legislation would set out principles that would govern self - governing negotiations and the commitment of the government to see a fair and just resolution to aboriginal problems . 
referendums 
what does the pilot do ? 
this is Dr. Gary O ' Brien , a Ph . D . , who has academic merit in his own right , including being an expert on John F . Kennedy . 
they do not necessarily understand exactly how they ended up in that situation , because those who made the cuts and reduced services are those who manage the programs , that is the provincial governments . 
your Committee which is authorized by section 88 of the Official Languages Act to review on a permanent basis the administration of the Act , any regulations and directives made under the Act and the reports of the Commissioner of Official Languages , the President of the Treasury Board and the Minister of Canadian Heritage , reports , pursuant to rule 104 , that the expenses incurred by the Committee during the First Session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament are as follows . 
access TO INFORMATION ACT 
motion No. 443 negatived 
when I was the mayor of my home town , I recall a couple of property owners wanting to subdivide their land and build a house and a quonset . 
we also have a history of deep involvement in and love for the arts. 
division No. 468 
some hon. members : 
hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Joint Chairman of the Joint Standing Committee on Official Languages , presented the following report : 
any examination of the criminal law in this area must consider both the responsibility of a corporation itself and the liability of the people who are employed by that company . 
this is section 3 of the Civil Code and it is from the latest volume that was just published . 
Mr. Mac Harb ( Ottawa Centre , Lib . ) moved for leave to introduce Bill C - 394 , an act to prevent deficit budgets . 
Mr. Speaker , there have been discussions among the House leaders and I think you would find unanimous consent for the adoption of the following motion : 
i thought it would be interesting if the member could give us some sense of the work and the proposals of the subcommittee dealing with the children ' s agenda and youth at risk which he chaired in the previous parliament . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 9 , be amended 
the House resumed from October 19 , consideration of Bill C - 6 , an act to support and promote electronic commerce by protecting personal information that is collected , used or disclosed in certain circumstances , by providing for the use of electronic means to communicate or record information or transactions and by amending the Canada Evidence Act , the Statutory Instruments Act and the Statute Revision Act , as reported ( with amendement ) from the committee ; and of motions in Group No. 1 . 
members 
there is Heritage Canada and industry . 
as a senator , he has helped establish the Senate ' s impeccable reputation . 
( division 328 ) 
hon. Don Boudria 
senator Kinsella : 
for whatever reason , I do not know . 
i worry about it every night and pray to God that my children are safe . 
for all intents and purposes , a corporation may contribute an unlimited amount to a political party . 
the Senate adjourned during pleasure . 
Mr. Speaker , what is the member doing specifically to make sure that whatever happens to the airline industry it will continue to provide services to small towns in Ontario and other provinces ? 
and the count having been taken : 
members 
Mr. Yvan Loubier : 
i do not think the government has thought a lot about these things . 
only 4,500 of those pardons concern sex offenders . 
the forestry and mining industries have suffered in British Columbia because of a lack of certainty that exists regarding resource ownership in the province . 
this happened in Montreal in the early 1990 s . 
how many millions will the economic uncertainty created by Lucien Bouchard cost Quebecers and Canadians ? 
i think it is very misguided to state that . 
a carrier created by merging Air Canada and Canadian Airlines would use up a large portion of the slots at Toronto ' s airport , particularly during peak hours . 
i think that puts $ 1 billion in perspective . 
when workers are denied EI premiums , small and medium size businesses suffer too . 
this is not to improve it but just to restore it and make up for the money that has not been spent on the highways over the last seven or eight years . 
this week , Senator Gauthier gave me information on the precise nature of Part VII. 
on June 8 , 1999 , the Minister of Justice said in her speech : 
this is not an issue that will be settled by this debate or by the passing of one piece of legislation . 
let us talk about the provinces . 
it creates a fishery that is racist . 
the Canadian group is comprised of officials from the Department of the Solicitor General , which co - chairs the forum with the U.S. Justice Department , the RCMP , the Canadian Security Intelligence Service , Correctional Service Canada , Revenue Canada , the Canada Customs and Revenue Agency , Citizenship and Immigration , Foreign Affairs , the Department of Finance , as well as representatives from provincial governments , including Quebec , and our police forces . 
Mrs. Monique Guay ( Laurentides , BQ ) : 
there are days that the debate generates more heat than light , so in that context I would like to at least offer some statistical information with respect to charge rates . 
this is not a debate . 
Mr. Ken Epp ( Elk Island , Ref. ) : 
i quote the brief on page 5 : 
more shortcomings of CSIS senior managers are being exposed with each passing day . 
i must confess that my attention was drawn to her citation from Sigmund Freud providing an explanation of sociopathic character disorder . 
that is what our government did . 
for the sake of the Nisga ' a and for other bands who entering into negotiations , this cannot happen . 
edited HANSARD * NUMBER 36 
he was retired , while for Ms. Roy the job was a means of supplementing her income and being able to afford some of the niceties . 
those are two obvious threats to health care in the country . 
other statistics tell us that aboriginal people have the highest mortality rate in Canada , at birth , tragically enough , but also as young people . 
that is something to be taken up behind the curtains . 
elections Canada always recommends against a patronage ridden system when it helps developing nations set up their electoral system . 
the maple leaf was a symbol of Canada as early as 1700 , an identification stemming from Canada ' s aboriginal peoples who gathered maple sap every spring . 
frankly , I have no idea who might be named to replace the incumbent . 
( b ) by adding after line 15 on page 108 the following : 
advocates across the country have confirmed to me that we face a desperate shortage of emergency shelters and another winter of death on the streets . 
* * * 
agreed . 
honourable senators , as agreed between both leaders in the Senate , and I hope all senators will be in agreement , I now give the floor to my colleague Senator Jean - Claude Rivest , who will read my speech . 
we cannot deal with water exports because of NAFTA . 
however , we must remember that free trade , despite everything that was said on both sides , was no miracle solution , but is now a vital tool for a country . 
a Predictable Path to Disaster '' . 
unlike the Group No. 1 motions which consisted exclusively of amendments of my Bloc colleague , Group No. 2 motions comprise amendments of a variety of members both from the government and the opposition . 
of course there are exceptions . 
we are going to be watching that very carefully . 
in Holly ' s specific case , in the Canada opportunities strategy we brought in a system whereby single parents will get a $ 3,000 a year grant to go back to university . 
to all these members I say thank you . 
Mr. John Reynolds ( West Vancouver - Sunshine Coast , Ref. ) : 
the Reform Party was screaming , when these people drifted on to the coast of B.C. , to lock them up . 
i have admired Senator Ghitter ' s sincerity and honesty . 
Mr. Charlie Penson 
members 
my question is for the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans . 
there is a Canada outside these centres , rural Canada . 
Mr. Darrel Stinson ( Okanagan - Shuswap , Ref. ) : 
i hope that is not the case . 
motion No. 86 negatived 
the bill goes on to specify what must be considered by the House of Commons in making the determination on whether a question is clear . 
Mr. Speaker , as the first member of parliament of Latvian heritage it is with great pride that I rise today to congratulate the people of Latvia and all Latvian Canadians on the 81 st anniversary of Latvia ' s declaration of independence . 
nobody wants to stick their neck out to protect somebody that is innocent . 
( division 323 ) 
the best examples are some of the things that were in the paper today . 
Mr. Speaker , we have seen the way the minister protects the public interest . 
bill read first time . 
what do the people of my riding want ? 
i will continue to address this issue with him . 
in conclusion , a bill to increase should follow an increase in crime . 
to present things this way is unacceptable . 
Ms. Wendy Lill ( Dartmouth , NDP ) : 
Mrs. Pierrette Venne 
i would have felt even better if it had addressed certain areas of post - secondary education , which the government appears to have completely ignored , and areas that I believe are critical if we are to move forward with knowledge into the 21 st century and not slide backwards or , if we are lucky , simply tread water . 
some hon. members : 
members 
if we look at Germany or New Zealand , both of which have mixed member proportional systems in their elections , or any other country that has a proportional element in its electoral system , there are up to 35 parties on the ballot . 
members 
honourable Senator Comeau ) . 
agreed . 
Mr. Speaker : 
the attitude has to change . 
honourable senators , as was said by colleagues on both sides during the emergency debate , the program is not working effectively and must be repaired . 
i am happy to announce today that the two bands which were allowed to fish up to October 31 have agreed to pull all of their traps and fully abide by a regulated fishery . 
the legal aspect will have to be looked at in greater detail in committee . 
that Bill C - 9 be amended by deleting Clause 25 . 
therefore the petition calls upon parliament to use the federal budget for the year 2000 to introduce a multi - year plan to improve the well - being of Canada ' s children . 
it also authorizes the seizure of goods used for gangs ' criminal activities . 
unfortunately , I have the impression that , for political reasons , the justice minister only wishes to show us that she is backing down , or that this is the Liberals ' balanced approach . 
it does not qualify under a proper definition of what an omnibus bill should contain because there is certainly more than one principle contained in this bill . 
let us take these issues seriously . 
they felt that the premiums were too high and the federal government agreed to it . 
nays 
they had the right to settle in the United States , but not the right to prosper there , to live in peace , the right to happiness and , in particular , to hope . 
our agricultural critics also put forward a minority report in which we listed eight positive things , other than just an ad hoc propping up of the sector , the government could undertake to assist farmers . 
concurrence in Vote 20 a - Agriculture and Agri - Food 
i am sorry to interrupt the hon. member . 
i wanted to get the actual text , the 400 pages , and I did not get it until two days before the signing ceremony . 
hon. Charlie Watt , Chair of the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal Peoples , presented the following report : 
we must do a better job of dealing with trade issues . 
this is the perception which I hear from NDP members : " If you cannot see the men in droves heading for the pit , the mill or the wharf with their lunch pails in their hands , there must be less people working '' . 
illicit drug use , we know , occurs mostly among children and have - nots . 
nonetheless , even as a point of order , I have heard nothing that would compel me as Speaker to delay the debate on second reading of Bill S - 7 . 
oh , oh . 
it is said that , after taxes , 32.5 % of young people between 18 and 24 have faced poverty for a full year . 
i ask our colleague and the members of the opposition to recognize that we are taking our responsibilities in this respect . 
* * * 
for that reason I cannot support the legislation . 
any third party that spends over $ 500 will have to file a report listing its advertising expenses and contributions . 
i hope that 10 years from now we will look back and , as what the Canadarm did for us in the aerospace industry , our participation in the space station will have brought awareness to Canadian talents and expertise in engineering and so on . 
i advocated to the Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food to put in place a crop acreage reduction program . 
we are respecting the rights of aboriginal Canadians and all Canadians to live together in peace and harmony in British Columbia and all over our country . 
( official Version ) 
Mr. John Reynolds ( West Vancouver - Sunshine Coast , Ref. ) : 
speaking personally , I note with pride that both my father and my grandfather were among those volunteers , in the Royal Canadian Navy and the 1 st Canadian Mounted Rifles respectively . 
i do not have the statistics now , but I remember reading that the cuts in assistance to agriculture by the Government of Saskatchewan have been substantial . 
yeas 
there is a high suicide rate , three times more AIDS , no initiative , and alcohol and drug abuse is at 62 % . 
from there , I think the idea of the suspensive six month veto arose . 
only 87,825 photo IDs were issued in the first year of operation ; only 2.5 million to 6.5 million to go . 
is this how we want those who represent us abroad treated ? 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased today to take part in the Bloc Quebecois opposition day devoted to the airline industry . 
i mention that because he talked about Ottawa , the downsizing of the civil service and how they had to respond to that . 
would the minister confirm that this agreement provides a way around the usual approval process of the Department of Health , despite the fact that Monsanto refused to provide the scientific information vital to the evaluation of its product ? 
this year , one of the 14 projects that we are sponsoring is a proposal to turn an abandoned plant into a place to live and work for young professionals and self - employed workers . 
it is this government that is turning around and is buying an aircraft for Correction Services Canada to be able to transport a growing number of violent criminals . 
motion No. 344 
that is a very serious situation . 
Mr. Greg Thompson : 
Mr. Werner Schmidt : 
the subject of the bill or the reading of it is not about families . 
senator DeWare : 
it is a testament to the vision and the leadership of our Prime Minister . 
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , Wednesday , November 17 , 1999 , I will move : 
it was done for prisons , it is going to be done for the fishery , and it was done for free trade . 
i ask the House to join me in congratulating the IODE and wishing all members continuing success in the next 100 years . 
some hon. members : 
the Nisga ' a treaty has arrived in this parliament to be debated and passed , or not passed , as members of the House decide . 
another very important part of international economy and the global marketplace is foreign investment . 
Mr. Michel Gauthier ( Roberval , BQ ) : 
perhaps the Liberals do not know this . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
there is the ability for peaceful entry into this industry . 
this has not been slow in terms of months or weeks ; it has been slow for years . 
without property rights , no other rights are possible . 
the second point which I will make is I am amazed again by this study of comparative law . 
it also does not make sense to build a facility from the ground up in relative isolation from major medical centres across the country . 
the Senate met at 2:30 p.m. , the Speaker in the Chair . 
how do we defend that in this day and age ? 
what did the Tories do about the shipbuilding industry when they were in power for nine years ? 
one hundred sixty thousand people have petitioned the Prime Minister of Canada . 
scam Block , a local education group that visits with seniors , wrote to me in support of the bill . 
i would like to ask , who was approving these grants ? 
Ms. Sarmite Bulte ( Parkdale - High Park , Lib . ) : 
that the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs have power to sit at 3:30 p.m. on Wednesday , December 1 , 1999 , even though the Senate may then be sitting , and that rule 95 ( 4 ) be suspended in relation thereto . 
this is not news . 
we ended up in a situation where fisheries managers have to allow the Mi ' kmaq in eastern Canada to fully satisfy their right to fish for a moderate livelihood before anyone else can . 
senator Mahovlich : 
to summarize the match , Guy Lafleur was outstanding in game number one , scoring a hat trick . 
* * * 
the reason for the amendment is that I think there is a very strong ability on the part of the industry committee to deal with the bill in the context of the Competition Act that is law in Canada today . 
it is very interesting . 
Mr. Speaker , the pink ribbon I am wearing today represents breast cancer awareness month . 
one government and a provincial government suggested they did not want to have it for the opportunity of saving money , as the federal government did when it took away its contribution to the GRIP . 
Mr. Speaker , my question is for the Minister of Immigration . 
in a system of government based on the rule of law , the laws and regulations created pursuant to its authority to give structure to society have a far reaching and profound impact on the daily lives of citizens . 
for the record , it says that Saskatchewan remains significantly below the previous five year average and is expected to remain significantly below the previous five year average in the year 2000 . 
Canadians do not have a say through their elected representatives because the elected representatives do not insist on having their say . 
the member for Crowfoot , who is a long - standing member of the justice committee , has made many good proposals over the years in this place on this issue . 
it also fails to address the whole aspect of government advertising and the government using taxpayers ' funds to prop itself up and to provide money to its own coffers . 
above all my many experiences here , some of which I enjoyed and some of which I did not , I have learned to respect the members of the Senate of Canada , their work , their commitment to their country , and their recognition of their constitutional responsibilities . 
in 1966 the difference between unemployment in the highest and lowest months was 46 % . 
the system is nothing less than the next generation of the Canadarm , which would help assemble and maintain the space station once in orbit . 
the government changed that recommendation around to make the program fit the budget the minister thought he could get for it , instead of making the program fit the crisis and address the problem . 
this legislation is in line with what is happening elsewhere in the country . 
they do not run candidates themselves , however they may endorse or condemn the stand of a particular candidate or political party . 
for once I hope the Reform Party will recognize this useful spending . 
if there is something that should be close to the Liberal heart , it is Air Canada . 
on October 30 , 1995 my life partner of more than 13 years died . 
Mr. Speaker , in all this business about Human Resources Development Canada , we know that 50 % of program spending was during the 1997 election campaign . 
bill C - 20 
Mr. Speaker , the Minister of Human Resources Development , who was appointed six months ago , set up all kinds of partisan committees to look at the glaring flaws in the employment insurance program . 
Mr. Scott Brison ( Kings - Hants , PC ) : 
honourable senators , I should like to ask a question of the Honourable Senator Austin . 
i commit myself , as my social democratic predecessors have done before me , to work tirelessly to achieve these just and time honoured goals . 
however , the Senate proposes that the list of offences to be flagged be incorporated in the act . 
the fact is that we do not even have the proper resources allocated right now in order to protect the stock . 
honourable senators , I understand the honourable senator ' s concerns regarding the overexpenditures of this particular program . 
this policy was developed to help those who are seriously ill and dying . 
government ORDERS 
Mr. Speaker , 20 years ago last Wednesday , during the evening of November 10 , 1979 , an event took place that is now known as the Miracle of Mississauga . 
national Defence 
nays 
there is no way we can have taxation without representation . 
the federal government should no more have been in the business of coal mining in Cape Breton than in the business of oil and gas in Alberta . 
in those days property or income based qualifications effectively prevented large segments of the working population from voting . 
Mr. Myron Thompson 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point order . 
the Bloc Quebecois agrees in principle with this bill . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
today , parliament is faced with a supreme court ruling , and it is always the same story . 
Mr. G é rard Asselin ( Charlevoix , BQ ) : 
this Canadian model is perhaps a good starting point for federations to commence the process of developing or refining the intergovernmental institutions and procedures needed to cope effectively with globalization in the 21 st century . 
i agree that technology is important nowadays , but I do not agree with Cassoulet and his cell phone . 
i am confident that the minister involved will welcome the constructive comments of the Auditor General , and I expect that he will take them into account and act accordingly . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough ( Halifax , NDP ) : 
edited HANSARD * NUMBER 37 
members 
in this case , they squirreled the money away in the vote for salaries and benefits where , obviously , it could not be detected by anyone . 
members 
the account will be managed by an approved private sector fund manager selected by a committee representing the employees . 
i have familiarized myself with all of these in an attempt to gain a clear understanding of the reasons set forth to justify a change and the possible consequences of the change proposed in Bill S - 7 . 
hon. Claudette Bradshaw ( Minister of Labour , Lib . ) : 
hon. David M. Collenette ( Minister of Transport , Lib . ) : 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
Mr. Dale Johnston 
oral QUESTION PERIOD 
Mr. Speaker , I can tell my hon. colleague that I am not even going to try because that is exactly the wrong approach . 
members 
the high - ranking officers responsible for that investigation are completely excluded from the list of those mentioned in the allegations of problems . 
hopefully we would come forward with a bill with less controversial wording and less in need of amendment . 
these are people of name who we can trust . 
it will not work to engage in a process of land claims that will balkanize the provinces . 
i would like to congratulate my colleagues from Laval Centre and from Verch è res - Les - Patriotes for their hard work on this issue . 
in conclusion , I underline the important work undertaken by parliamentarians at these international meetings . 
Mr. Simpson went on to write : 
if he is talking about the aboriginal fishery , the hon. member clearly knows that we have set up a federal representative . 
those are things that do not appear on his pay stub and those are also things that would not have occurred if the government had listened to Reform . 
* * * 
national Defence Act DNA Identification Act Criminal Code 
i do not think I can say much more other than to say that we do see eye to eye . 
Mr. Speaker , I would like the hon. member to comment on something I find very interesting . 
we have a number of concerns . 
i think of the fine lobster we have in my part of the country . 
justice 
in the meantime , every domestic economy , including Canada ' s , is continually scrutinized by international investors and business people to a depth of detail never before possible . 
from that point of view , it has been a process that has in some ways brought out the best in terms of public debate and certainly has been a model of what negotiation should be about . 
democracy means more than simple majority rule '' . 
the report includes a recommendation in this regard . 
Mr. Speaker , the Prime Minister ' s newfound referendum strategy is as clear as a foggy night . 
we can engage in all kinds of partisan rhetoric . 
i will now reflect on the changes that I think would improve the bill . 
senator Carstairs : 
in the event of a marriage breakdown , a non - aboriginal woman has the protection of the law for access to the marital home and a guarantee that she is half owner of family assets , including the marital home . 
is it any wonder we trail the United States when it comes to productivity ? 
some hon. members : 
can the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs tell us when this measure will be introduced in the House ? 
hon. Harbance Singh Dhaliwal ( Minister of Fisheries and Oceans , Lib . ) : 
a referendum is the desire of the people of British Columbia because of the social implications and the long term implications that this Nisga ' a agreement will have on the province of British Columbia and all of the people who live in the province of British Columbia , native and non - native . 
these 37 cases come from a sampling of 459 cases taken at random from among 30,000 cases . 
honourable senators , I shall now quote judgments in four of these last 39 cases just listed . 
" crossed off the list and , subject to sections 144 and 145 , " 
why do Canadians have to take to the streets to get the Liberal government to listen to them ? 
as Minister of Finance and later as Minister of Health , he found it necessary - as was the case in all the provinces and indeed in the country - to make some very tough decisions . 
as long as we have to argue with them to ensure the unity and the progress of the country , we will continue to promote the democratic tradition that is one of the great achievements of Quebec and of all Canadians . 
the member raised the question that his party raised . 
i know there will be a future on Cape Breton Island because unlike the government I believe in the people of the island . 
minister OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE 
however , it is subject to competing claims of ownership by the Gitanyow people , whose hereditary chiefs appeared before the House of Commons committee to explain the dispute . 
we want tax cuts for those who contributed most to helping the federal government eliminate the deficit . 
that means three times that amount are needed to maintain that 4,500 figure . 
it has been a ride over bad roads too , but that is another issue . 
it is regrettable in the extreme the federal government did not have the foresight to at least take under serious advisement the urgings of the Mi ' kmaq leadership to anticipate the outcome of the decision . 
i was not attached to anyone , I was there to defend the public interest , and I think it is the only way to protect democracy . 
there are no cultural conditions attached to this . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
last spring the government gave the Labour Minister a mandate to find a solution , and she was supposed to derive a strategy within a month . 
the fact of the matter is that Mr. Black was recommended for a non - hereditary life peerage and , in my opinion , that is a noble aspiration . 
hon. David M. Collenette ( Minister of Transport , Lib . ) : 
now the government has the opportunity to help with this public awareness campaign by recognizing June as leukemia awareness month . 
we discussed what the order would be . 
manslaughter is a lesser and included offence as compared to premeditated murder . 
the other amendments to this act will clarify and strengthen the existing regime on the collecting of samples of bodily substances . 
what is most alarming is the growing number of children living in poverty . 
i will continue to demand from the government that we work with the stakeholders to come to an acceptable solution of this serious issue . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
it represents a forced marriage of two bills on two rather different , almost unrelated subjects . 
i draw to your attention that my hon. colleague spilled a large amount of water on my chair and I am therefore denied the opportunity to take my seat in this House . 
the bill expands the definition of anti - competitive act currently listed in section 78 . 
he also mentioned the Libman decision . 
or are we going to come up with legal creations which are not anchored in reality ? 
we are used to that here . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
i understand that during the provincial part of this whole discussion , the province had 27 different meetings in different communities in British Columbia . 
his 40 years of dedication to the fundamental principle of respect for the history of our country and for the unique nature of our two founding cultures will serve us well in this inquiry . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
Mr. Svend J . Robinson ( Burnaby - Douglas , NDP ) : 
are young people asking us to think for them ? 
i do not think there are many Canadians , and I am one of them , who are aware of what Air Canada ' s counterproposal may be . 
yesterday , the Minister of Finance bemoaned their situation when presenting his economic statement . 
we are the major benefactor of those rules . 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
members 
hon. Jane Stewart 
i take this opportunity to congratulate my colleague from Quebec for her excellent analysis on poverty , homelessness and federal government policies . 
finally , this bill makes several other technical amendments to the Criminal Code to clarify and strengthen the system for the taking of bodily substances for forensic DNA analysis . 
examples of the number of grants that are being given . 
the government in the Speech from the Throne has committed to increasing the funding for the granting councils . 
it is interesting that after she had gazetted that the airstrip was going to be closed , a parks crew flew in the area and exactly what I just said happened . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl ( Fraser Valley , Ref. ) : 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the desire to have it examined by the Banking Committee related to a series of concerns raised at second reading debate , which were matters of taxation to be properly addressed by the Banking Committee . 
we have become part of an increasingly knowledge - based global economy from which there is no turning back . 
division No. 458 
it is a special kind of logic that allows him to justify a prison research centre in a province with no prisons . 
i agree that decorum is a bulwark of democracy . 
we have to look at the long - term implications . 
he is not in the House . 
i would have thought that would be the kind of policy that the Conservative Party would be interested in seeing so it could resolve the mess that it caused in its time in office . 
i have spoken to many Nisga ' a back home and here in Vancouver . 
( the House divided on the motion , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
with the NAFTA , like it or not , there was a major shift in the tariff policies of the government . 
of every five cases that the CAS investigates , three of those cases involve custody and access matters , and of those three , two are found to be unsubstantiated . 
Mr. Speaker , it is simply not true that those beds are no longer needed . 
however , I think I have had sufficient experience to understand something of the mandarin and , indeed , the political mind . 
the manner in which consent is to be given is governed by the regulations . 
is that agreed ? 
... you asked for my views on the question as to whether the Nisga ' a treaty creates an " exclusive " fishery contrary to the Magna Carta . 
* * * 
i am not familiar with the issue of five - year averaging , but the senator makes an articulate and reasoned case . 
that is a step in the right direction . 
he spoke for all who have faced their soul in the finality of the theatre of war , whether Korea , the gulf or the two world wars . 
but to suggest that because an auditor requested to come in by the Government of Canada has identified some problems in the files and that a cabinet minister needs to step aside over that is political hysteria . 
these cuts are shocking , revolting , disgusting , odious and not worthy of any government . 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
instead , the parties involved know the limitations imposed and must work within such a framework to establish an agreement that satisfies not only the court ' s requirements but the objectives of each party . 
Mr. Richard Marceau ( Charlesbourg , BQ ) : 
honourable senators , my question is supplementary to the comments of the minister , particularly those with respect to the position of the provincial government . 
mike Harris thought that the best way to deal with a difficult political policy issue was to empty the legislature and have first , second and third readings all on the same day . 
i believe this motion is exclusive , not inclusive . 
hon. Ralph E . Goodale 
for example , the audit report talks about the definition of poverty and asks for clarification on what it really means . 
united Nations 
is it agreed ? 
which is it going to be ? 
i am not suggesting that our farm income protection system is perfect . 
division No. 112 
let us look at the Reform Party policy . 
privacy rights and e - commerce privacy laws are already being developed in Europe , in the European Union , at the OECD , in New Zealand and in Australia . 
we have to create the impression that we are talking about a very small group of young people who get into trouble . 
honourable senators , taking a leaf from Senator Stratton ' s book , I , too , have a bit of a preamble to my question . 
the health care that one receives has to be related to research and properly applied . 
this bill is very Liberal friendly , designed to aid the party in power . 
we absolutely need to create mechanisms that hold violators of international law accountable for their actions . 
it can travel in the air tens of kilometres from the point of release , or settle as dust suspended in the air waiting to be stirred up by human or animal movement . 
yeas 
Mr. Rey D . Pagtakhan 
tell me , sir , why did 95 % of Quebecers vote ? 
that whole issue is the subject of a court challenge . 
it will then be possible to ask the CPIC management to make the sealed records available . 
complications during childbirth were not rare , and only the most serious cases ended up being transported on the back seat of the doctor ' s car to the nearest hospital , and often it was too late to save the baby or perform a caesarean . 
increase in Capital Expenditures in Supplementary Estimates ( A ) - Possible Opening of New Embassies 
in my opinion , it is overly injurious . 
that , indeed , is my first difficulty with this bill . 
madam Speaker , I am particularly interested seeing as how the last speaker is my neighbouring colleague in the Okanagan . 
before I continue in any detail , I first want to compliment my colleague , the member for Vancouver North . 
members 
Mrs. Marlene Jennings 
bill C - 16 , which has said absolutely nothing about this issue . 
hon. Hedy Fry ( Secretary of State ( Multiculturalism ) ( Status of Women ) , Lib . ) : 
i could cite case after case that I have been involved with which would prove that . 
she was paid this tribute in Rome by a jury comprising representatives of Italy , Spain , France , Romania , Brazil , Colombia and Quebec . 
hon. Lucienne Robillard 
honourable senators , we are both Montrealers . 
we want to set the record straight by reminding the minister that a recent poll conducted by the research and information centre on Canada , or CRIC , shows that only 13 % of Quebecers support the status quo . 
in 1973 , the supreme court issued the Calder decision . 
can we imagine the howls of derision from members on that side of the House , or from that member when she was on the other side the House , if the government unilaterally gave away the fishing rights to the aboriginals ? 
yeas 
however , we should have been back here September 1 , not the middle of October . 
the only thing the bill is very clear about is that the question could not envisage other possibilities in addition to the secession of the province from Canada , such as economic or political arrangements with Canada , that obscure a direct expression of the will of the population of that province on whether the province should cease to be part of Canada . 
to recognize and celebrate the lives of those who died for Canada is not to celebrate war . 
Mr. Speaker , I say again that the riding did qualify as a result of Statistics Canada numbers . 
Mr. Speaker , a witness by the name of Mr. Bartleman asked me about Indonesia . 
for the federal government to look good it passes it to the provincial governments . 
motion No. 217 negatived 
it might be useful for us to have a discussion on this point so that I could better understand what the senator has in mind . 
i make the plea for new funding to improve our waterways and enhance the quality of life for our citizens . 
division No. 704 
Canadians are very happy with the fact that we have ended an era of skyrocketing deficits and public debt for good , that we have brought down back to back balanced budgets for the first time since 1951 - 52 , and that we have put the debt to GDP ratio on a permanent downward track . 
there is a need in Quebec and not just in the other provinces . 
honourable senators , the time set aside for this item on the Order Paper is up . 
Cape Breton Development Corporation - Bill to Dissolve - Effect on Miners and Staff 
Mrs. Pierrette Venne ( Saint - Bruno - Saint - Hubert , BQ ) : 
that Vote 6 a in the amount of $ 600,000 under FINANCE - Economic , Social and Financial Policies , in the Supplementary Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2000 , be concurred in . 
the Nisga ' a treaty is not even supported by the leader of the official opposition in British Columbia who happens to be a Liberal , Gordon Campbell . 
Mr. R é al M é nard 
having said that , honourable senators , the rules indicate that as Speaker I have no authority in this matter . 
when one goes into a poll , with all the credit card fraud going on , we could at least require all voters to show identification when not on the list . 
agreed . 
administrative arrangements add greater flexibility to our federation . 
Mrs. Elsie Wayne 
for them it is this or nothing . 
it is not up to the supreme court . 
and more than five members having risen : 
however , the federal justice minister has failed in her duty to provide that information . 
it is good for the people of Nisga ' a . 
( 4 ) Applications for the position of returning officer shall be in the prescribed form and shall be made at the prescribed time and verified in the prescribed manner . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe 
his remarks had to do with the Nisga ' a agreement , the implementing legislation being debated today . 
Mr. Grant McNally : 
senator Boudreau : 
herbal Alternatives 
Mr. Speaker , I used a word because I could not think of a better one yesterday . 
the Speaker has no authority to compel a particular Minister to respond to a question . 
the Speaker : 
in the past year , CMHC has helped Canadians gain access to over 475,000 homes with the use of mortgage loan insurance at no cost to the government . 
the Liberal government is giving evidence day after day that it really has no vision . 
i assure the House that they have taken their work very seriously . 
the council shall create an advisory board for each health research institute and appoint the members of the advisory boards , and it shall appoint a scientific director for each health research institute . 
income TAX ACT 
the Deputy Speaker : 
nays 
this is simply obscene . 
the report states : 
motion No. 13 to amend clause 7 ( 2 ) ( a ) broadens the type of offences that organizations can investigate using personal information without consent where they believe there has been a contravention of the law . 
petitions 
now there is concrete evidence before the RCMP complaints inquiry quoting RCMP Superintendent Wayne May as saying " The Prime Minister of our country is directly involved '' . 
aids has gone from a fatal disease to a chronic illness . 
Mr. Speaker , thank you for recognizing the official opposition ' s responsibility in the House to ask the first question . 
over that same time period the finance minister slashed funding for health care and every single year he raised taxes . 
the Chair has received an application for an emergency debate from the hon. member for Langley - Abbotsford . 
for the first time they can see how people can live and exist together despite their cultural or religious differences , their differing points of view . 
i am demanding that the Government of Canada take concrete action in co - operation with provincial and territorial governments , towards the reduction of the federal excise tax , a uniform reduction of the road tax in Quebec and the restoring of a special monetary subsidy on the price of fuel oil for families that have used this product since December 1 , 1999 . It would be in force for four months . 
tell the patients lined up on waiting lists that everything if fine . 
Mr. Rick Borotsik ( Brandon - Souris , PC ) : 
we should recall , as in the recent Marshall case , that the Supreme Court , after making a decision , can clarify or make changes to an earlier decision . 
is it your pleasure , honourable senators , to adopt the motion ? 
the same type of confrontation was seen recently involving the Burnt Church first nation of New Brunswick . 
for those who manage to find jobs , they are always temporary contract jobs that provide no security . 
even those who are proactive on this issue and those who are now using genetically modified seed grain have questions , not all of which have been answered , although they should have been . 
yet , the Auditor General states , in the part of the report relating to National Defence , first and foremost , that the defence ethics program has not yet been fully implemented . 
( division 21 ) 
Mr. Lynn Myers ( Waterloo - Wellington , Lib . ) : 
we also oppose it because there are thousands of strategic jobs , including many in Quebec , that are at risk in this matter . 
second , the money cut from the federal transfer payments must be restored for investment in the public health system . 
i hope that she will withdraw this legislation , or introduce an amendment which recognizes the family and the definition of marriage , to enshrine it so there will not be a contradiction and the denial of what has been clearly expressed by the House as being the desired definition of marriage . 
today I mentioned this centennial because it represents the pioneering spirit in the country . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
the government should open up its ears to the provincial delegation that is coming down . 
the dynamic at work here is clear and concrete . 
foreign Affairs 
that is one of the things happening in our country today . 
for eight years , they will let the existing plants continue to operate , that is process fish . 
i am afraid the time has expired . 
another one is simply that the international truck traffic has tripled in 10 years , up 300 % . 
yea . 
Mrs. Marlene Jennings 
they will start not at the speed unfortunately that we would like them , but in the meantime we continue to work with the provinces and with the industries . 
members 
the department of human resources analysed the opportunity , the information was provided to the stakeholders , the stakeholders agreed that the investment should be made , and no moneys flowed until that appropriate approval process was completed . 
far too often businesses , and indeed heads of corporations , may be tempted by that financial gain and put the safety of workers second . 
yeas 
along with celebrating excellence we should be known as a country that welcomes and supports creative minds . 
therefore , they call upon parliament to establish peace tax legislation by passing into law the conscientious objection act which recognizes the right of conscientious objectors to not pay for the military , but to apply that portion of their taxes that was to be used for military purposes toward peaceful , non - military objectives . 
there is a great interest in this bill . 
i got one little hint of a positive comment from the member . 
and more than five members having risen : 
that is the real question . 
does the minister agree with the president of CIDA , or will she release the full list of companies that were audited so we can finally get some truth and accountability from this department ? 
Mr. Jean Dub é 
it is only logical . 
members 
from 1976 until 1993 , although we had occasional communications , we did not see much of each other . 
i do not think I could find a better example in the six years that I have been here than what we see going on today in the Department of Human Resources Development . 
Mr. Pierre de Savoye ( Portneuf , BQ ) : 
we have an agriculture industry in the country that generated some $ 95 billion in domestic sales last year and over $ 22.5 billion in exports to markets around the world . 
Mr. Howard Hilstrom 
part of the reason the Bank of Canada needs to do that is that for the first time ever as a percentage of GDP in Canada , we are at 38 % of our GDP in taxes . 
i understand the Minister of Transport to be saying that he hopes and expects that another company or companies will in due course move into the field and provide competition . 
accompanying Mr. McTeague are other members of the House of Commons . 
the member across the way knows that . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
i would suggest that there is a number of groups that believe it is important to strengthen the legislation to make absolutely sure that health care , health information and the social area information is not being abused . 
the second nominee is Versatile Tractor , originally sold to North America New Holland and now merged with the $ 4.6 billion American Case Corporation . 
do you think a 14 year old who never reads a paper and does not know what is going on in politics will say to himself before committing any crime that , with Bill C - 3 , if he commit a crimes , he will spend more time in prison ? 
paired 
it is something we cannot gloss over . 
somehow you can hear me in all this noise when I cannot hear myself for the racket from the other side . 
it is also quite clear that the treaty will be subject to the constitution and the charter of rights and freedoms . 
that Vote 10 a in the amount of $ 1,253,000 , under INDIAN AFFAIRS AND NORTHERN DEVELOPMENT - Indian and Inuit Affairs Program - Capital expenditures , in the Supplementary Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2000 , be concurred in . 
Mr. Speaker , the minister has not answered the question about the contradiction . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
agriculture 
i do not understand . 
i must say that I am impressed with the Reform Party . 
Ms. Jocelyne Girard - Bujold ( Jonqui è re , BQ ) : 
Canadians know that this party cannot have it both ways . 
some Hon. Senators : 
people in Ontario are concerned , like people in Alberta , that tax and spend federal Liberals will move into the hard earned vacated tax room created by the provincial government . 
the member ' s motion before us is laudable . 
Mr. Gurbax Singh Malhi 
bill C - 114 in 1993 created the special ballot , mail in registration and a voting system for those who could not access the advance poll or be present on voting day . 
but there was none of that . 
the artistic and cultural community pays him a resounding tribute , in honour of his talent as an actor , his untiring energy , and his role as a builder of French language culture in Canada . 
by decreasing taxes our companies would be competitive nationally and internationally . 
business OF THE HOUSE 
this is something that has to be changed . 
there were those who thought that a person almost had to be put to death to be properly rehabilitated . 
the process has relied on confidence that lawyers , as officers of the court , have a duty to truth and integrity and on confidence that lawyers on their honour alone would not use court proceedings for unjust or dishonorable purpose . 
this manifesto 2000 is not an appeal nor a petition addressed to a higher authority . 
paired 
Chilliwack , British Columbia , has a whole military base right smack dab in the middle of all the prison problems , drugs , cartels and organized crime . 
the issue has been thoroughly reviewed by a number of House of Commons committees , the National Round Table on Environment and Economy and , most recently , our own subcommittee studying the boreal forest . 
* * * 
i declare Motion No. 310 lost . 
Mr. Jean - Guy Chr é tien ( Frontenac - M é gantic , BQ ) : 
points OF ORDER 
Mr. Jim Abbott 
* * * 
CSIS 
in summary , the blood samples act is about fairness . 
with a view to enlightening this House in the context of Bill C - 20 - 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
there is some work to do to make sure that these important components which they will be lifting into orbit will be able to deliver the merchandise . 
hon. Senators : 
although I agree that some improvements need to be made in the Privacy Act and that it should be a concern and perhaps priority of the House to visit the privacy issues in greater detail , my colleagues and I cannot support Motion No. M - 19 because it seeks to create a legal reference point that overlooks the larger issue . 
we are talking about the transport committee ' s report . 
obviously this is nonsense . 
half of them have never been interested in politics ; and half of them were very sad about the process and did not share our political opinion here . 
i would also like to remind the House of the Corbeil affair , back in the days of the very good former member for Hull - Aylmer . 
on the other hand government does not rule out investing their parents ' money in big tobacco . 
at the same time the Prime Minister has chosen to hide behind some very slippery numbers . 
i think it is important to compare and compare I will do . 
motion No. 184 negatived 
Mr. Derek Lee ( Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
delay in Release of Scientific Report 
senator St. Germain : 
we will set up these tables and we will work through it over the winter . 
it is a place of peace not a place of work . 
paired 
what we could be responsible for , and should be , is to make sure that every band has the capacity to do that and not be squashed from above and held in positions of dependence . 
we hope that this will finally be corrected under Bill C - 10 . 
the most notable long - term investment in these partnerships is the creation of opportunities that instill in our youth a recognition and motivation that they , too , can play a role in the breakthroughs of the new millennium . 
china - Detention of Catholic Archbishop 
i would like to take a few minutes to address timber resources on Nisga ' a land . 
they were talking about fiscal and democratic accountability for on - reserve governments and the department of Indian affairs . 
motion No. 312 
i cannot understand why anyone would try to link this with the Marshall decision . 
some hon. members : 
under the Canada Elections Act , small and large corporations have always been able to contribute to the funding of federal political parties . 
on motion of Senator Hays , debate adjourned . 
Mr. Speaker , I have here a brochure published by my colleague , the member for Argenteuil - Papineau - Mirabel , which shows the historic sites that were the theatre of the fight for democracy in 1837 - 38 . 
division No. 614 
prayers 
they are feeling betrayed as well by the fact that they lost $ 400 million out of the provincial GRIP program . 
Ontario 
it is not just an isolated incident . 
since 1967 , the government has provided over $ 1.5 billion in subsidies . 
nays 
requests FOR EMERGENCY DEBATES 
* * * 
after studying the same subject nearly every year for the past 20 years at least , we have come to the conclusion that imprisonment will not help lower the crime rate . 
i completely agree with Mr. Shean , the big mayor . 
bill to Amend - Report of Committee - Debate Adjourned 
yeas 
elections Canada as an instrument of democracy is rife with people who are chosen by the government to do its bidding during elections . 
Mr. Speaker , I would be glad to give the hon. member a bit of my time because my answer will be relatively short . 
as far as I know , there has always been a possibility of these matters being settled eventually . 
the issue of what level the threshold should be , whether $ 100 or $ 200 , is somewhat academic . 
this is clearly not the case now . 
an Hon. Senator : 
Mr. R é al M é nard 
the Deputy Speaker : 
in my opinion the nays have it . 
yeas 
let me say that the Attorney General of British Columbia , Ujjal Dosanjh , has brought this issue to my attention . 
a Sainte - Foy , Quebec company has developed space robotic expertise to produce a digital imaging system for medical radiology . 
the third way and the best way is to do it by peaceful negotiation . 
he will be a strong defender of Canada ' s public health system . 
this is the ultimate in handing over rights to private corporations which will clearly , in many cases , go against the decisions of duly elected representatives of the people of Canada . 
we now have quorum in the House . 
i listened carefully to my colleague who represents a riding close to mine . 
Mr. Speaker , my hon. colleague is wrong . 
it would force the Nisga ' a to remain under the Indian Act , an act which rather ironically has been most persistently denounced by those speaking against this legislation . 
together with the school community , É mile Shoufani was constantly striving for high academic standards . 
i can assure the hon. member that we will continue to invest in the future of Canadians . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
it is remarkably easy now for a thief to take out huge loans in someone else ' s name , run up enormous credit card debts and tap into bank accounts . 
in the highly populated areas in Eastern Canada , we have marketing boards , a subsidy program paid directly by the consumer to the farmer . 
almost two years ago to the day there were debates in the House with respect to the Kyoto climate change conference . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe ( Laurier - Sainte - Marie , BQ ) : 
hon. Donald H . Oliver : 
about $ 3,000 would go back to that family . 
nil 
i will talk a bit about what it is to be opposition in the House of Commons and about what it takes to stand up and have a little courage in one ' s convictions . 
i think this also applies to our nation . 
when the Reform member talks about competition , I agree with her that we must bring in sound competition in regional transports . 
members 
regrettably , the Western world , during the years of the Soviet Union , did not acknowledge or understand the magnitude of the genocide . 
the federal government has failed to recognize the importance of our food industries . 
many witnesses shared their practical experience with different approaches to aboriginal governance and described in some detail their proposals and aspirations in this regard . 
now a ruling has been made . 
second , patients believe that it is important to know and to control how their health information is shared by others , and do not want information released to third parties without their knowledge and consent . 
Richard , you have seen eight prime ministers come and go since you started here in the time of Louis St. Laurent . 
another fundamental is the Canadian dollar . 
an examination of the number of sitting days of the various legislative assemblies and the two Houses of Parliament is quite revealing . 
the amount will be welcome news among our Armed Forces personnel . 
order , please . 
members 
since the subject is open to debate , I believe it would be wise to place a sample question in the bill as a suggestion to a province intending to hold a secession referendum . 
Mr. Michel Gauthier 
Mr. Bob Mills : 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
Mr. Dale Johnston 
sometimes the paramountcy is with the Parliament of Canada , and sometimes the paramountcy is in the hands of the provincial legislatures . 
thirtieth Anniversary of Proclamation 
i should hope that this committee will get its act together fast so that we can sit next week in order that we might have something to say prior to the Supreme Court decision which could affect the future of Air Canada . 
we must aim to be the most connected country in the world . 
in later treaties that I can see coming , I see the strong possibility of conflicts in a substantive sense between different types of rights and I may have to give a different response then . 
this has deteriorated his health with him losing a great deal of weight and he has become so withdrawn trying all possible ways to see the light at the end of the tunnel . 
it is a very interesting story . 
nays 
i had to raise $ 1,500 for bail to get out of jail which of course my friends helped me to do and I was able to get out of jail . 
with the greatest respect to each and every one of us here , I do not think the Royal Assent ceremony takes on that kind of purpose and importance when the government whip is forced to go around to ensure that there is a quorum . 
Mr. Deepak Obhrai : 
is there unanimous consent ? 
will the secretary of state do that in the years to come ? 
they know and they appreciate and they want the government to participate in providing opportunities for them so that they can benefit from the greatness that we know is ours as Canadians . 
export Development Corporation 
for a lawyer , it gets no better than that , to dive into the code and rewrite the code in accordance with testimony that we heard . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the careful search for truth can be painstaking and , at times , frustrating . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the member for Lakeland and I would like to change positions on the order of precedence of our Private Members ' Business . 
we learned last week that the current UN humanitarian co - ordinator , Hans Von Sponeck , is also resigning in despair over the failure of this sanctions policy in Iraq . 
Mr. Speaker , Mr. Kelly ' s section 690 application was referred to the Ontario court of appeal . 
i think back to before Christmas . 
* * * 
Mr. Speaker , I have the pleasure to present a petition signed by over 100 of my constituents calling on parliament to use the federal budget for the year 2000 to introduce a multi - year plan to improve the well - being of Canada ' s children . 
no property rights , no nothing . 
Mr. Brent St. Denis ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Natural Resources , Lib . ) : 
in fact , he went on to discuss the seven years of applications of law where the supreme court of the United States had applied these same kinds of provisions in the U.S. courts recognizing those rights of first nations people and without violating what they call the sacred constitution of the U.S. The same would hold here . 
Mr. Speaker , this report is an important step in helping to ensure that corrective action is taken to ensure that we look after the health care needs of our Canadian forces personnel . 
it is therefore directly related to prostitution , of course . 
they were misleading the House . 
the economic decision makers feel that the conditions are right to ensure sustained and sustainable economic growth for Canada . 
having read the documents as thoroughly as I could , I wish to commend the negotiators who laboured arduously to try to bring together two different notions of Canadianism ; the notion of equal treatment and that of ethnic identification . 
we listened today to the Reform Party telling us two or three different points . 
i also thank all the honourable senators who are members of our committee for their efforts and ongoing cooperation . 
the minister knows that and he sits there with a smirk on his face because he thinks it is funny when the likes of Professor Stephen Scott from McGill University , a recognized legal expert ; Professor Tom Flanagan from the University of Alberta ; Mel Smith , former constitutional adviser to the Government of British Columbia for several decades ; Gordon Gibson , the former leader of the Liberal Party of British Columbia ; Professor Ehor Boyanowsky from Simon Fraser University ; and Liberal leader Gordon Campbell of the current Liberal opposition in British Columbia , all appeared before that committee and said exactly the opposite . 
we are part of a large family , and it is our ancestors , mine and those of the members over there who are trying to break up our country , who helped to build this great country . 
the letter is signed by Arthur A . Hadland from Baldonnel , British Columbia . 
the most successful nations of the world have always been those which are successful in trading with their neighbours . 
the federal government also will foster greater international research collaboration by Canadian universities , and research institutes will help to expand Canadian scientific expertise in a variety of areas . 
however , it is only if in the opinion of the minister the payment has been unreasonably delayed . 
this is a matter for the commission . 
there were two yeas on the last vote with no nays . 
senator Lavoie - Roux introduced the notion of a government obligation to set guidelines last spring . 
leave having been given to revert to Reports of Committees : 
it took an election to jolt some of them before it became clear that this is not an ongoing , long - term issue . 
( division 147 ) 
it is not the criminal code that is the cause of a bank robbery . 
this bill , like the Supreme Court opinion it relies on , is provocative and incomplete . 
Mr. Keith Martin 
maritime Provinces - Supreme Court Decision Upholding Native Fishing Rights 
this is what happens under a provincial government . 
Mr. Yvon Charbonneau 
Mr. Jay Hill ( Prince George - Peace River , Ref. ) : 
in the event of a conflict between domestic and international law on the right of the national assembly , legislature or Government of Quebec to effect the secession of Quebec from Canada unilaterally , which would take precedence in Canada ? 
motion No. 37 
bill C - 4 seeks to implement the agreement signed last year . 
oral QUESTION PERIOD 
they would get the answers . 
if not , I will take the matter under advisement . 
the two largest unions in Quebec think the clarity of the question does not leave any doubt . 
some hon. members : 
our Constitution has evolved considerably . 
the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have assured the House that tax cuts will be part of this budget and future budgets . 
today 600 miners took over the General Mining building in Glace Bay . 
we hear members of the NDP today telling us that we cannot get rid of Devco , that it is part of our past and they want to keep it . 
( d ) provide information about Canadian tourism to the private sector and to the governments of Canada , the provinces and the territories . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
i allowed the honourable senator to finish her speech . 
Mr. Speaker , I too am pleased to rise to speak to the Reform motion before us today , asking that a minimum of 20 % of federal excise tax revenues on gasoline be directed to joint federal and provincial programs . 
some countries , we have heard , want to make encryption keys mandatory . 
we recognize the importance of trying to find a balance between protecting the environment and encouraging economic development . 
madam Speaker , the hon. member is speaking to the dependency model . 
last year all members of the Conservative Party supported this bill as did all members of the House . 
hon. Lyle Vanclief 
un enfant ç a vous d é croche un r ê ve . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 455 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
( the House divided on Motion No. 380 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
honourable senators , with regard to the riding of Winnipeg Centre , I was the senator who asked the question . 
they have a chance of employment there . 
motion No. 2 
there is also the law of silence governing all relationships in the underworld ; search warrants that are restrictive because of the courts interpretation of the provisions of the Canadian Charter of Rights ; small police budgets compared to resources available to criminal groups ; the difficulty to assert that , simply by associating with them , a person is really involved with other individuals for a criminal purpose , since organized crime is not considered a crime , and only individual actions are ; the banking secret of tax havens , which protects against the laundering of proceeds of crime . 
Mr. Speaker , the transitional jobs fund list indicates 32 projects , with $ 14 million doled out , produced zero jobs . 
we must put money back in the pockets of those who have earned it and allow them to generate economic growth . 
as I have said before , what is required is to ensure that the terms and conditions of programs and projects are undertaken . 
Mr. Speaker , how can Reform claim that 50 % plus one is sufficient when , as the Prime Minister has said , it is not enough to amend its constitution ? 
i would like to return to the heart of the debate . 
here on the banks of the Ottawa River , Nisga ' a artistic and cultural achievements are on view in the Grand Hall of the Museum of Civilization and in the recently mounted " Common Bowl " exhibit . 
we have created another fork in the road . 
finally , and this is more an editorial comment , I hate to take instructions or even stand still when someone from that side of the house mentions being in a cookie jar . 
the government will do the right thing . 
justice and Human Rights 
division No. 493 
as a matter of fact I will pre - warn my staff that perhaps we should get a bunch of maps and draw British Columbia on them in a different colour so that government members will at least know where it is . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron : 
i am not sure that would be particularly fruitful at this time . 
Mr. Charlie Penson ( Peace River , Ref. ) : 
the Ontario court , general division recently upheld in Layland and Beaulne the definition of marriage . 
is it to continue along the path that has been set out before them with Devco for the last 33 years ? 
today we are looking at the globalization of organized crime . 
( official Version ) 
as well , we heard from people who work on the front line in our communities , such as social workers , educators , public health people , police officers and , of course , Canadians who are marginalized and impoverished . 
why are we worried about the 60 th parallel ? 
the government ignored its report and the justice minister has already indicated that she wants more consultations that will last until the year 2002 . 
Mr. Speaker , I can hardly read the Prime Minister ' s thoughts . 
if customers do not trust a company with their information they will find another company that will . 
the unemployment , mortality , illiteracy , suicide and incarceration rates on reserves among aboriginal people , particularly young people , are the consequences . 
the forum provides a regular opportunity for officials from Canada and the United States to discuss transnational crime problems and strategies to improve operational and policy co - operation and co - ordination . 
he has really hit the nail on the head in addressing the issues in the throne speech that concern us . 
we have to protect them against some of this intrusion into their flexibility and independence . 
furthermore , members of the caucus of mayors of major Canadian cities congratulated senators on having been receptive to my proposal of last June . 
i think it is the most serious place in the land . 
in 1944 , two more Canadian war ships were lost , and an estimated 91 people killed . 
canada ' s baptism by fire came over MMT , a toxic gasoline additive and a NAFTA chapter 11 challenge by Ethyl Corporation . 
when they volunteer their time to pass literature for politics in the electoral process , they will be earmarked , tagged and black - marked . 
however the 48 hour period is a means of giving the voters a bit of a respite before they go to the polls , allowing time for personal and individual reflection without outside influence . 
the federal government operates strictly on its own . 
members 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
i appeal to my colleagues to renew our support for the UNICEF campaign . 
this method , which facilitates the transformation of a woman ' s immature eggs into embryos is called in vitro maturation . 
under section 35 of the Constitution Act , 1982 , existing ancestral rights are recognized and confirmed . 
Mr. Ghislain Fournier : 
his quiet and steady support for me when I served as leader of the government in the Senate was generous and wise . 
since Health Canada has declared an adequate home a determinant of basic health , homelessness is a problem that requires immediate action . 
the Speaker : 
reference TO STANDING COMMITTEES 
people know that , every week , the Parti Quebecois talks about laying the groundwork for winning conditions . 
the ECONOMY 
Ms. Libby Davies : 
the question though is why the delay ? 
motion No. 16 agreed to 
the federal government is challenging this percentage . 
this is one of the other aspects to which this bill will , hopefully , achieve its purpose . 
they continue to be a part of Canada ' s overall economy despite Liberal government indifference . 
we have been explaining it to Quebecers for 30 years now and I believe they understand . 
unfortunately , the Liberal members from Quebec seem unable to hear the message sent out by those defending Quebec expertise in this area for many decades . 
it is important that the legislative framework be properly developed , because it must not infringe on provincial jurisdictions , but rather complement these . 
i have not found anyone else that wants to be her partner while she is dancing . 
Mr. Speaker , I will be sharing my time with the member for Waterloo - Wellington . 
in a nutshell , Bill C - 244 enables a judge to order the taking of a blood sample from any person who is either accidentally or deliberately contaminated a good Samaritan , health care professional , emergency professional or security professional while in the course of duty . 
exercise the powers and perform the duties and functions set out in sections 24 , 24.1 and 24.2 ; " 
these cuts , totalling $ 7 billion , are hurting Quebecers . 
privilege 
she reported that those folks were Irene Arsenault , Manager , Media Relations , Public Affairs Division of the Department of Justice ; Fraser Simons , Regional Director of the National Parole Board , Abbotsford Region ; and , in Blatchford ' s own words , " the wheel " Yvan Roy . 
i know that those children are better off . 
are we to understand that the Liberal representatives of Quebec prefer to respond to pressure by the Reform Party than to promote the opinion of experts from Quebec ? 
there were 31 public hearings in 27 communities . 
Disenfranchisement for any reason , cultural or in pursuit of justice for past wrongs , can hardly be said to be either responsible or in taxpayers ' interest . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
today , we are all panicking and we are not prepared to react after 250 years . 
he says there has to be a clear majority but he will not define what that means . 
if we want to exercise an appropriate role , we should do so in the United Nations while we sit as president on the Security Council . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I listened with great interest to my colleague talk about the government ' s record on free trade , but I would beg to differ . 
in 1998 they showcased Acadian culture in Ottawa on Canada Day . 
what bothers me is that the government was premature in saying that a strategy would be in place long before now . 
members 
he lets the Minister of Industry answer , but we are asking for tax measures . 
* * * 
i applaud this initiative and the foresight of the government who acknowledged the importance of mothers and fathers spending time with their children in the first formative year . 
we see the beginnings of what flows through the act and that is a downloading of costs on to the provinces . 
this report on the European Union follows work that we did in 1995 and 1996 , during which our committee travelled to Europe and had an interesting schedule of meetings which contributed greatly to the excellence of this report . 
i declare Motion No. 303 lost . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 216 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
i wonder if she is taking the same kind of management rules , regulations and observations as the minister of HRD . 
similarly , under subclause 5 , the bill indicates members of the panel may be employed in the Public Service of Canada . 
there is the whole idea of patronage . 
hon. Don Boudria ( Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
would he not agree that instead of beginning a new session of parliament with a throne speech that it would be far more advisable to begin a new session of parliament with a budget so that there would be a specific plan on the table in which Canadians could engage in a real debate about the future of Canada ? 
the member opposite remembers serving on the committee late into the evening . 
agreed . 
on June 12 , 1995 , Jacques Parizeau , Lucien Bouchard , then leader of the Bloc Quebecois , and Mario Dumont , leader of the Action d é mocratique du Qu é bec , signed a tripartite agreement on that basis . 
we are going to be debating shipbuilding again with respect to the private members ' motion by the hon. member from L é vis . 
black History Month 2000 
if they are not going to tell British Columbians what is really in the treaty , what is the point of having this debate ? 
Ms. Val Meredith ( South Surrey - White Rock - Langley , Ref. ) : 
according to Irwin Colter , his first law professor and philosopher was his father , who always told him that the pursuit of justice was the most important thing . 
agreed . 
Mr. Speaker , it is absolutely essential that government undertake policies and measures in a way that makes sense for rural Canadians . 
* * * 
meanwhile , those that are not sold to foreigners join the thousands of other economic refugees who flee Canada ' s repressive taxes for the U.S. and other low tax jurisdiction , just like the executives at Nova Corp who now call Pittsburgh home . 
let me touch on some problem areas in Bill C - 13 . 
we are saying that not only is that a mistake , not only is that a huge error , but it is reprehensible and we cannot proceed in parliament until that is addressed . 
motion No. 317 negatived 
it was attended by 125 people . 
that is the suggestion offered by the minister and her mouthpiece the member for Kitchener - Waterloo . 
they are in conflict over the bill . 
individual grassroots aboriginal people are not empowered to stand on their own two feet . 
regional Restructuring Legislation - Refusal to Declare Ottawa Officially Bilingual - Inquiry - Debated Suspended 
for once they should use the clout available to them . 
in our judgment , this deficiency will not be remedied until there are 150 - plus members of parliament from all parts of the country committed to that vision of a reformed federation for the 21 st century . 
we will see it , I am sure , in the coming years . 
we recognize that there is in some instances in rural communities the ability of a neighbour to come and vouch for a person but there should be some clarity and perhaps a method for doing so . 
she had tried unsuccessfully to get title to it . 
farm credit has been tough . 
Mr. Speaker , 70 % of the solicitor general ' s corrections staff said that his drug strategy was a failure . 
we are going to have a celebration of that event in the year 2004 on the 400 th anniversary . 
when it comes to criminal justice , we have a vision of Canada as a safe society where people can live their lives , walk on the streets , drive on the highways , go to school , go to work , shop in the stores , visit the parks and live in their homes without fear of harm to themselves or their property or , even worse , fear of harm to their loved ones . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
we are looking for the government to do two principal things . 
in the past my party and I have not supported dedicated taxes . 
the legislation deals with all those issues . 
i believe everybody in the House is in agreement that this is an excellent initiative . 
however , it is unfortunate and even troubling to see that the minister and her government have chosen to ignore the advice of their own court of justice . 
when Minister of Health Jamie Muir does sit down with the other ministers of health and the federal Minister of Health , my concern is whether there will be more than $ 2.5 billion , which , we must remember , is spread over four years and includes education . 
senator Kinsella : 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay ( Solicitor General of Canada , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased to join in paying tribute to the late Alan Macnaughton . 
i have worked life long for the restoration of our rights , for we have the right to be Dene , Inuit , Sarcee or M é tis , and to be proud of it . 
now we see hundreds of amendments aimed at dismantling , undermining and changing this agreement , which has been entered into honourably by different parties . 
every person who knowingly organizes , induces , aids or abets or attempts to organize , induce , aid or abet the coming into Canada of a person who is not in possession of a valid and subsisting visa , passport or travel document where one is required by this Act or the regulations is guilty of an offence and liable 
there is $ 78 million to fight smuggling . 
however , it seems obvious to me that this bill is incomplete . 
Mr. Ghislain Lebel 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
hon. Pierre S . Pettigrew ( Minister for International Trade , Lib . ) : 
they are a mixture of fact and fiction . 
hon. Ralph E . Goodale 
it says that there is no right under international law or under the constitution of Canada for the national assembly , legislature or Government of Quebec to effect the secession of Quebec from Canada unilaterally . 
yeas 
i think it was Forest Gump who said it best : " Life is like a box of chocolates '' . 
in her book Capitalism : 
this is what Canada and its allies will be pushing for when the negotiations get started in Seattle . 
as I said in my speech , from the figures I have seen , less than half of the producers in Saskatchewan and Manitoba are qualifying for any kind of payment . 
there are in effect two health care systems in Canada : one for the big cities and one for the rest of the country . 
for six generations the Nisga ' a people refused to give up hope or to doubt that their goals would be achieved . 
at the Quebec Summit in March 1985 , Canada accepted this invitation and confirmed Canada ' s interest in co - operating at the summit meeting in Washington the following year . 
second , the commission was to collect , evaluate and disseminate information to the public on these technologies . 
she is moving money from one hand to the other . 
why does the government insist on going down the same road of race based segregation by imposing the Nisga ' a treaty on the aboriginal and non - aboriginal people of British Columbia ? 
and so the debate about the meaning of poetry and history rages on . 
most people point out that it would go to the so - called new airline . 
Mr. R é al M é nard ( Hochelaga - Maisonneuve , BQ ) : 
the same is true for the other political parties . 
that is the reality . 
that is what the bill is about . 
Mr. Gilles - A . 
i remind the member that employment insurance is a temporary income support program for people who are between jobs . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl ( Fraser Valley , Ref. ) : 
is American Airlines a philanthropic institution ? 
( motion agreed to ) 
therefore the mover will get the last five minutes . 
if I am digressing here it is because , through the bill , the minister is getting rid of the only part of the supreme court ' s opinion that he did not like , that is , the obligation to negotiate . 
" 27 . 
i would now like to proceed with - 
senator Di Nino : 
however , we must use the same weapons as our opponents . 
we know that they are in trouble . 
agriculture 
it is on that basis that I would not recommend to the Bloc pursuing the particular motion , an unnecessary restriction which hinders the debate that we now need on restructuring the airline . 
Mr. Maurice Dumas ( Argenteuil - Papineau - Mirabel , BQ ) : 
since then , the centre has contributed to the integration of the Portuguese community into the Outaouais life , while preserving and celebrating its beautiful traditions . 
an hon. member : 
let us start with the Constitution . 
paired 
therefore they are not really concerned , as they have demonstrated on a number of occasions , about hearing the voices of the people of British Columbia , the province that will see the impact of this ill planned and ill conceived bill that is wrought with peril , should it proceed . 
that is what happens in a lot of cases . 
that is quite something when one realizes this is a bill that should protect personal information . 
i should say , honourable senators , that the committee did a yeoman ' s job in a very short period of time . 
it is not the first such paradox from the Prime Minister . 
we know it is more common with things like Down ' s syndrome , which is a genetic condition . 
one thing I will certainly say about the Federation of Canadian Municipalities is that it is nothing if not democratic . 
before the House prorogued , Bill C - 409 was about to receive its first hour of debate at second reading . 
some hon. members : 
in fact , it is a discredited model , and major studies of social and economic conditions , including the December 1998 homelessness study , recommend distinct strategies to contend with the realities faced by aboriginal peoples . 
the judge then went to the mother , the father , the cousins and brothers and sisters , and they were all embarrassed by this kid ' s activities . 
witness the case of Joseph Authorson , a World War II vet unable to manage his pension who trusted the government to properly administer his finances . 
i want to conclude by telling the House a story . 
job Creation Programs - Possible Mismanagement of Funds 
Mr. Greg Thompson 
Ms. H é l è ne Alarie 
i wish I had been part of the debate and the discussions in 1988 - 89 dealing with the Progressive Conservative position on free trade , the free trade agreement and the NAFTA agreement that came thereafter . 
what was the motive of the government in all of this ? 
Dr. Bagshaw was the director of the first birth control clinic in Canada . 
canada ' s position is that our health care and public education system are not negotiable and will not be jeopardized in the current upcoming negotiations . 
i would take issue with what I have heard from Senator Kinsella , which is that we may have a lesser standard of behaviour in this place than in the other place . 
native leaders say that the federal government has a fiduciary responsibility to protect their interests and their rights , but in a treaty of collectivity , how are the rights of the individual going to be protected ? 
the Deputy Speaker : 
we need to be very much on guard against the kind of fearmongering that has been generated toward many of those exploited and desperate people . 
the next question is on Motion No. 62 . 
( division 648 ) 
honourable senators , I give notice that on Tuesday , February 15 , 2000 I shall call the attention of the Senate to the financing of post - secondary education in Canada and particularly that portion of the financing that is borne by students , with a view to developing policies that will address and alleviate the debt load with which post - secondary students are being burdened in Canada . 
the EI surplus is $ 600 million a month and not per year . 
these are independent review mechanisms with full powers of access to CSIS information , as established by an Act of Parliament . 
division No. 184 
canada was very proudly represented by our minister who spoke very eloquently to the group . 
if they are not rubber stamped by the government they cannot come forward as witnesses with regard to Bill C - 9 and the concerns in British Columbia over the Nisga ' a agreement . 
the Speaker : 
it certainly is an overlooked area where we have potential concern . 
i hope he will let the RCMP conduct its investigation and shed light on the whole issue , instead of saying falsehoods here in the House . 
miss Deborah Grey ( Edmonton North , Ref. ) : 
Mrs. Monique Guay ( Laurentides , BQ ) : 
this member said in the press not too long ago - 
according to all those who watched it , the game was very exciting from beginning to end . 
that is to say , to be implemented in Canadian law they require laws passed by parliament . 
Mr. Lynn Myers ( Waterloo - Wellington , Lib . ) : 
new MEMBERS 
the issue really is that Jean has got more after - tax disposable income today as a result of what this government has done than what Reform would have delivered . 
Mr. Bernard Bigras 
in the meantime , however , we believe strongly that the cultural exemption must be upheld . 
it was clearly understood that , if we were to travel , a budget would be prepared and presented to the Committee on Internal Economy , Budgets and Administration so we could comply with the directives given each committee to monitor their spending . 
Mr. Speaker , I thank my colleague for his very pertinent question . 
they looked at eligibility in order to ensure that as few people as possible would be entitled to benefits . 
i move : 
most of us were here the other night and we voted . 
i remind the House that the government has come to the assistance of producers in a number of ways , one of which has been $ 1.07 billion or close to $ 1.1 billion to assist producers , which is just about four times what the hon. member ' s party said it would give . 
motion No. 80 
we have made and continue to make significant contributions to peacekeeping and international development . 
these municipalities are on the front line serving our constituents . 
yeas 
there is one point he made that I want to commend him for . 
* * * 
the proposed amendments would also require that any - 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
senator Forrestall : 
committees OF THE HOUSE 
Berlin , Germany ( Official Residence Construction ) 
there is another side of the Immigration Act that demonstrates very well that our system is not working . 
Mr. Greg Thompson : 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay ( Solicitor General of Canada , Lib . ) : 
it is not some sort of hidden agenda . 
Daniel and Linda Lalonde , a brother and sister heading the Dan R . Equipment firm of Plantagenet , received the Prescott award of excellence , while a number of other people and businesses were given honourable mentions or similar awards . 
questions ON THE ORDER PAPER 
in pursuit of this goal , Bill C - 7 proposes to add one additional provision with respect to the particular case of the criminal records of pardoned sex offenders . 
if there were unanimous consent of the House to deposit the document we could all save ourselves a dollar by not buying the paper . 
Mr. Speaker , last week when the minister of fisheries went to Halifax to try to negotiate a settlement for the crisis in the fishery , the minister could not get an agreement . 
it is a few uninformed individuals who care not to look at the facts , who care not to enter upon debate , who want to call down , call names and wave placards every time somebody else has a different opinion . 
i was speaking to the historical developments of the Constitution Act while in the hands of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in England . 
this concrete action means that we recognize the importance of the sacrifice of merchant mariners and their contribution to Canada ' s war effort . 
that would have cut the legs out of smuggling in cigarettes completely , as was proven in 1991 - 92 . 
transport 
i have always felt that it is better to negotiate than to go to the courts , but there are others out there who refuse to move forward . 
i was just wondering , if there was one thing that could be changed , what would be the number one thing in its number of weaknesses we could do to improve the bill ? 
we hope that the Reform Party will do the same . 
Marcel Proulx , member for the electoral district of Hull - Aylmer , introduced by the Right Hon. Jean Chr é tien and the Hon. Alfonso Gagliano . 
Mr. Speaker , last Friday I announced in the House the appointment of the federal representative , Mr. Mackenzie . 
there is a real risk developing in the international front in this research in that it is now commercially driven . 
i do not think there is any question about it . 
groups all over Canada are raising this issue but the Liberals , in making its $ 20 million cheque , has basically endorsed this product and went against public safety and public health . 
the roadway system is the backbone of our tourist industry and the lifeline of our foreign trade . 
it should be dealing with social program renewal . 
i am sorry , this is the second time I have raised it . 
hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I rise today pursuant to the Honourable Senator Nolin ' s motion to form a special committee of the Senate to reassess Canada ' s anti - drug legislation and policies . 
on May 25 , 1999 the committee tabled its report entitled " Toward Eliminating Impaired Driving " with an appended draft bill . 
that is interfering with the fair tendering process , yet there is case after case of this happening . 
the Minister of Human Resources Development and her officials do have discretionary power , and I see the member opposite shaking her head , but it is really a discretionary power even if , under the legislation , the minister has the authority to give grants or to fund programs , there is a highly discretionary component to all these things . 
canada Customs and Revenue Agency 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
there has been a lot of discussion about the Nisga ' a treaty and about the supreme court . 
although the government recognized the problem a year ago , not a single thing has been done . 
first , we met with community representatives and got dialogue started . 
Mr. Yvon Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst , NDP ) : 
paired 
nays 
as part of this process , they will determine whether it is necessary to develop additional conflict of interest policies for all members , employees and volunteers of the institutes ' committees and advisory boards . 
world TRADE ORGANIZATION 
Mr. Speaker , at the APEC inquiry today , Staff Sergeant Hugh Stewart takes the stand . 
in the 22 nd edition of Erskine May , page 65 , parliamentary privilege is defined as : 
we also have , through the supervision that can be done by Quebec ' s access to information commission , processes and recourses , which means that the communication of personal information is already regulated . 
first and foremost , he was a loving husband to his wife , Joyce Pavelich , a dedicated father to his children Michelle and Nicholas , a loyal son to his mother H é l è ne , and late father Clermont , and a good friend to his brothers Pierre and Paul . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
* * * 
* * * 
if the very people who were paid to know the contents of the negotiations were kept in the dark , where was the average British Columbian ? 
motion No. 369 
the minister was on the plane the next morning , meeting with all the stakeholders down there and trying to carve out some way of dealing with that crisis . 
Mr. Speaker , the F é d é ration des travailleuses et des travailleurs du Qu é bec , the Conf é d é ration des syndicats nationaux , the Centrale de l ' enseignement du Qu é bec , the F é d é ration des femmes du Qu é bec , the Front d ' action populaire en r é am é nagement urbain , student federations , the Front commun des assist é s sociaux du Qu é bec , all of Quebec is outraged that the federal government wants to call the shots with respect to Quebec ' s future . 
members can see how twisted and dishonest the government is . 
the money has to come in the form of an early childhood development services fund , with resources coming from the provinces and the federal government , accessed by communities after they have determined what they need to do the right job for kids from birth to six , so that those children will be ready to learn and ready for life by the time they enter the school system . 
one of the things I noted was that Reformers tried their hardest . 
yea . 
Mr. Monte Solberg ( Medicine Hat , Ref. ) : 
Taiwan 
at the end of the day , members will ask themselves if it was worth it . 
that money doesn ' t refer to what Ottawa put up for AIDA '' . 
they have been telling voters to vote and support them and they will reward them . 
they even listened to some of the civil libertarians who thought that once pardoned always pardoned and we should not have access to the record . 
the moral of the story is that tax cuts are necessary to grow the economy . 
as Canada prepares for the new round of WTO negotiations we must remember that Canada has prospered greatly from a rules based trading system . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron : 
my question is not about job creation , it is about the integrity of the government and the minister . 
Mr. Grant McNally 
there is no way the Nisga ' a can decide 56 things and there be no possibility of appeal . 
... with its provincial and territorial partners , it will work to reform family law and strengthen supports provided to families to ensure that , in cases of separation and divorce , the needs and best interests of children come first . 
let us stick to the facts . 
on the Order : 
( the House divided on Motion No. 29 , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
as a result he falsely represented support for his private member ' s bill . 
members 
yet , we have before us today a bill which , in many respects , undermines the ideals that we love to praise . 
i bring a deep conviction of the inherent dignity and value of the human person . 
Mr. Speaker , I appreciate the question of the member for West Nova . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) 
Mrs. Christiane Gagnon 
can the solicitor general understand that we need a special investigator on this case ? 
Mr. Grant Hill ( Macleod , Ref. ) : 
the heritage minister said " I am ordering an inquiry '' . 
Ms. Raymonde Folco 
they were unable to tell us , because the foundation had inherited the mandate . 
Mr. Eric Lowther : 
Mr. Speaker , the theme for this year ' s International Women ' s Day is " Canadian Women taking Action to Make a Difference ! " 
now the Liberal government steps up and says that they believe in the inherent right to self - government , but they never told anyone . 
Barbe - Baie Verte , indeed Corner Brook and Deer Lake , western Newfoundland , is becoming one of the premier capitals for sporting and high performance athletics not just in Canada but internationally as well . 
the recorded division on Motion No. 53 stands deferred . 
i must also reiterate the longstanding objections of a variety of witnesses to the far - ranging powers granted to the privacy commissioner under clauses 12 and 18 . 
i would like the unanimous consent of the House to refer Bill C - 237 to the subcommittee on human rights for further study . 
this year I would like to pay tribute to our Canadian war artists . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 75 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
at the current rate it is not sustainable . 
why does he want to exclude potentially 27 % of employed Canadians from the electoral process ? 
the minister is actively considering the appropriate time for tabling of the amendments '' . 
Ms. Judy Wasylycia - Leis 
nays 
it is almost 2 p.m. and we will go to Statements by Members . 
Mr. Brent St. Denis 
subsections 6.3 ( 1 ) and ( 9 )) 
they are not different for nothing . 
the National Forum on Health has made some very important observations about how to reform the system within the public model . 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to ask a question of my colleague from Vancouver Quadra . 
foreign Affairs 
nays 
the next question is on Motion No. 301 . 
hon. Martin Cauchon : 
honourable senators , I do not buy the argument that this agreement is not a template for the conclusion of other agreements . 
Ms. Louise Hardy ( Yukon , NDP ) : 
the Prime Minister does not understand the difference between 1982 and the present situation . 
it is very unfortunate . 
they would have us believe that the economy of industrial Cape Breton is nothing more than coal mines and steel mills , which we just heard today , and that its future can never move beyond the old economy . 
honourable senators , when shall this bill , as amended , be read the third time ? 
nays 
between 1990 and 1995 , the number of Canadian households spending more than 50 % of their income on housing went from 583,710 to 833,555 , a 43 % increase . 
the Speaker 
the Speaker : 
( a ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine in the discretion of the court or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years , or to both ; or 
they have blamed bureaucrats who have toiled there in the past . 
agreed . 
No. 
it states : 
yeas 
i am sure that the minister will be concerned about reports today that the panel on ecological integrity in Canada ' s national parks appears about to report that the national parks are in serious trouble , that the ecological integrity principle that the parks are supposed to be managed on is not being applied consistently , and that scientific talent is thin in the parks . 
some hon. members : 
the member should be authorized by the Chair to read out what he has to say before asking for unanimous consent . 
has the Liberal government made up its mind ? 
Ms. Carolyn Parrish ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Public Works and Government Services , Lib . ) : 
there is no question of negotiating Canada ' s public health or education services . 
there must be a balance between making a profit and operating as an ethical and socially responsible enterprise . 
nays 
we have protected taxpayers by cutting $ 16 billion from the tax rolls , and we will have further cuts according to the Minister of Finance . 
Ms. Marlene Catterall 
i would like to know where the Minister of the Environment stands on this , and if all Canadians and parliamentarians will have a say before Canada makes a decision on this issue . 
it proposes administrative changes , promotes the principles of equity , makes the act more flexible and reviews provisions that were invalidated by the courts . 
Mr. Yvan Loubier 
i am attempting to address the mischief , as the old masters used to say . 
for 25 years , the corporate governance provisions in the CBCA have remained essentially the same . 
unlike some , it has a very high level of unemployment . 
that is the law . 
Mr. Speaker , all parliamentarians in the world could not believe what happened in Armenia yesterday . 
in his last days , a chief joy was sending out his trademark typewritten memos to fellow scholars . 
yeas 
it has a river running through it and a huge lake where a lot of people gather for skiing , boating and things of that nature . 
they cut their capital gains taxes . 
madam Speaker , it has been a long day . 
at least that is what many people have decided in these test cases . 
why is the government continuing to support this course which has been proven to be an abysmal failure ? 
visitors in the Gallery 
is the House ready for the question ? 
Ms. Libby Davies ( Vancouver East , NDP ) : 
we would no longer have the House of Commons being represented by members of the government side only , something that we have had consistently in my five and one - half years in this chamber . 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay 
CSIS investigates all types of national security . 
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore : 
hon. Consiglio Di Nino : 
lighthouses 
our role in attaining such true peace mandates that we use our positions as senators to bring about true justice . 
i am pleased to rise to debate this important bill , an act to implement the agreement among the Government of Canada , Governments of Member States of the European Space Agency , the Government of Japan , the Government of the Russian Federation , and the Government of the United States of America concerning co - operation on the civil international space station and to make related amendments to other acts . 
in terms of our procedure , I would be happy to move a motion , while I have the floor , unless any other honourable senator wishes to speak on this matter . 
Mr. Speaker , I hope you will allow me to continue to speak since I have here an excerpt of the referendum legislation of the State of Washington , in the United States of America . 
they will come out from under that archaic and perhaps racist piece of legislation . 
Mr. Rick Borotsik 
the CONSTITUTION 
library of Parliament 
is it the policy of the minister to deem companies bankrupt so they can qualify for even more HRDC money ? 
i will explain what the federal minister understands by advising the provinces . 
... for statistical or scholarly study or research , purposes that cannot be achieved without disclosing the information , it is impracticable to obtain consent and the organization informs the Commissioner of the disclosure before the information is disclosed . 
banks and other major financial organizations have lots of money that they can give to major political parties . 
they want me to make the point with the people here and across Canada that the government has literally taken the shirts off their backs . 
bill C - 405 . 
that is an injustice on many levels because it trivializes the struggle of black South Africans . 
i said " - we have improved Canada in a variety of ways and will continue to do so . 
that case and that definition are considered clear law by ordinary Canadians , by academics and by the courts . 
when it really comes down to it , what is sovereignty but the ability to make our own mistakes and be responsible for it . 
it tried to do that in 1992 with the Charlottetown accord , the same political parties that are here now with the same faces and the same failed ideas , and the Canadian people and British Columbians said " no ' . 
division No. 65 
my family and thousands of others benefitted from the government ' s investment in that program , for the greater good of our economy and our nation . 
the result is that many tensions have been created by a government absolutely not prepared to provide any leadership in dealing with the inevitability of finally addressing treaty rights long overdue and disregarded . 
these initiatives would further demonstrate our belief in our students and our confidence in their futures in the knowledge - based economy . 
we have gained access to the Japanese market for our tomatoes by working with officials there to get them to reduce their extremely time consuming approval process which required that each and every tomato variety had to be tested separately for pest risk . 
the first petition relates to the reopening of the embassy in Belgrade . 
basically , it consists of three measures : a loan guarantee program specific to shipbuilding ; a leasing write - off provision ; a shipbuilding tax credit similar to the one that already exists in Quebec . 
this is why we are asking , and have asked already numerous times , that the federal government withdraw its bill and resume consultation with the provinces in order to table a bill that respects provincial jurisdictions . 
Mr. Andrew Telegdi ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Citizenship and Immigration , Lib . ) : 
Ms. Jocelyne Girard - Bujold : 
to what extent do we wish to control that commodity in the interests of personal information ? 
honourable senators , my question is for the Leader of the Government , though it could be equally directed to the Deputy Leader of the Government . 
APEC Inquiry 
parliament BUILDINGS 
black HISTORY MONTH 
the appellant ' s representative was advised of this and a decision was issued . 
the member spoke of the anti - gang bill and the CCRA review . 
Mr. John Maloney 
that could also change the percentage of foreign content which the hon. member has brought up . 
second reading 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
nays 
all the authorities go on to say that it may be obtained , especially by ministers acting under responsibility , at a later phase . 
is it true that one of the winning conditions for the separatists would be to have as prime minister a party leader like Joe Clark , since Mr. Joe Who likes to be chummy with the separatists ? 
Mr. Stan Dromisky 
in his speech opening the 18 th Sommet de la Francophonie in Moncton on September 3 , 1999 , the French president , Mr. Jacques Chirac , expressed his admiration for our country . 
the international market is experiencing a significant downsizing . 
motion No. 98 negatived 
agreed . 
hon. Ron Ghitter : 
in view of this fact , we are mystified as to why Canadian Heritage is attempting to run a parallel conservation initiative under a separate piece of legislation .... Our 
it is not written anywhere in the Quebec Referendum Act . 
i have been listening very carefully , as always , to my colleague , the parliamentary secretary to the government House leader , who discussed the amendments in Group No. 3 . 
hon. David Anderson 
the definition is that a child who turns 16 can tell his mom and dad goodbye and he is on his own . 
some hon. members : 
let us call the Corporal Reads , the Mr. MacAdams and people like that to the committee and get their stories under oath to a bunch of members of parliament who can finally take the tough stand and take some action against organized crime in Canada . 
a Nisga ' a court can only operate if it is similar to a provincial court and approved by British Columbia in accordance with the treaty . 
we must make the investments in the equipment needed to ensure that the Canadian forces will continue to be interoperable with our allies , and we must continue to reinvest in the men and women who are the lifeblood of the Canadian forces . 
okay , we are going to get to Burnaby - Douglas then we will get to Cypress Hills - Grasslands . 
he bases it , if I am correct , on his view that the advisory judgment of the Supreme Court may have some fault lines . 
in the Stoltmann area per se , we find beautiful ancient growths of trees which are currently logged by International Forest Products , Interfor , a Vancouver based company with logging rights in the area . 
Mrs. Madeleine Dalphond - Guiral ( Laval Centre , BQ ) : 
that being the case , there will need to be re - regulation . 
Mr. Speaker , the Standing Committee on Human Resources Development has decided to ask former deputy minister Mel Cappe and the President of the Treasury Board to appear , to try to shed light on the serious problems at the Department of Human Resources Department . 
there was also a clear consensus on the need for proper tax relief , that the amount of disposable income families have is for snowsuits and snow boots for kids . 
the rest of the ruling will follow shortly . 
the Nisga ' a people will be able to determine how , when and where they will use their resources . 
it is getting ready to do it again this week with its much - talked - about bill to prevent Quebecers from making a democratic decision about their political future , and this is unacceptable . 
the ratification of Bill C - 4 is an important step to what has been a long and beneficial international engagement for our country . 
i am simply quoting to the honourable senator the words of his committee , which recognizes that the parties have attempted to address this question by including provisions in the Nisga ' a Final Agreement that aim to preserve and protect the rights of aboriginal peoples other than the members of Nisga ' a Nation . 
they cannot stand up and blame the Liberals , because problems occurred when both parties formed the government . 
i would like to know whether they will be as enthusiastic about lowering taxes as they were about scrapping the GST . 
today , with the need for services going up , but not the funding , long term care facilities can meet only two - thirds of the demand . 
yeas 
there is plenty of precedent , as Senator Graham will recall , for the Senate ' s splitting a bill . 
Mr. Speaker , I am very fond of my colleague opposite . 
the rule states that the designation is made by the chairman . 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
as a result of the legislation , those people who spend any part of their time working as telephone solicitors - and many people do , including many students - will be hampered and the campaigns will be hampered in terms of the use of their time . 
Mrs. Rose - Marie Ur ( Lambton - Kent - Middlesex , Lib . ) : 
the mentality in this place is that we live in the boonies . 
charges against young people for violent crimes has dropped by 3.2 % since 1995 . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 183 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
that is what it is there for . 
not everyone wishing to be determined an Indian can be . 
i would say that is hardly the case with some of the questions being asked . 
we would like to see the principles of the Canada Health Act strengthened , but we have to look at the reality of today . 
i am damn well here to ask questions and I am going to stay here to ask questions . 
i declare Motion No. 289 lost . 
child POVERTY 
and yet these people were here and had rights . 
senator Angus : 
Mr. Speaker , right now 38 % of the national highway system does not meet minimum standards . 
there is a gaping wide loophole at the moment in the act which allows charities to engage in political activities with no real accountability . 
does he believe that Canada should stay united ? 
further , there is a whole host of measures between constructive dialogue and sanctions that should be utilized . 
research institutes will bring about a strategic repositioning in health research to solve major medical issues . 
35 TH WORLD SKILLS COMPETITION 
senator St. Germain : 
Mr. Gurbax Singh Malhi ( Bramalea - Gore - Malton - Springdale , Lib . ) : 
i recall back to 1993 when the federal government decided to get out of the housing program and pass the responsibility over to the provinces . 
* * * 
neither need maintain a physical store or shop and inventory can be managed more efficiently . 
hon. John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , during the debate on the former Bill S - 24 , a number of you raised the issue of the sizeable costs relating to implementation of these measures . 
they even have in their treaty a special provision for future potential taxing rights which no other town , city or municipality in Canada has . 
Mr. John McKay 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased to have the opportunity to make a few comments on the issue that is before the House and the motion that is before the House today . 
madam Speaker , that is the problem . 
Mr. Cliff Breitkreuz ( Yellowhead , Ref. ) : 
food products are leading the surge in growth in world agriculture trade . 
the National Assembly of Quebec , in a unanimous motion , and all of those in Quebec who work with youth , are calling on the federal government to backtrack but it is turning a deaf ear . 
that the subject matter of Bill C - 6 , An Act to support and promote electronic commerce by protecting personal information that is collected , used or disclosed in certain circumstances , by providing for the use of electronic means to communicate or record information or transactions and by amending the Canada Evidence Act , the Statutory Instruments Act and the Statute Revision Act , be referred to the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs , Science and Technology ; and 
statistics Canada 
why would it take the federal government that long to send out an agreement ? 
division No. 37 
employment 
that is the real purpose of this bill . 
whereas the Canadian tourism industry makes an essential contribution to the economic well - being of Canadians and to the economic objectives of the Government of Canada ; 
some 36,000 farmers have responded to it in the form of applications . 
the Canadian Health Care Association has received a legal opinion which is quite detailed and quite , I would say , devastating in its analysis of this bill . 
but to move from that to the conclusion that I am out of order , I disagree with . 
we have to brand Canada , at home and abroad , as a dynamic and skilled knowledge - based economy . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 163 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
the province takes its name from the Duchy of Brunswick in Germany , which in 1784 , the year the province was established , was in the possession of King George III of England . 
it has access to CSIS files . 
the Nisga ' a agreement will not give them that voice because the power will be centred with the people at the top . 
national Defence 
the hon. Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs is quite a brilliant individual . 
if I heard correctly , it is the Reform Party that refused to - 
Mr. Julian Reed : 
motion No. 379 
there is enough to debate and enough to disagree about in terms of what we actually say . 
Mr. Gordon Earle 
decision on Right to Francophone School in Summerside , Prince Edward Island 
madam Speaker , Motion No. 130 states : 
they were shocked . 
i know how it feels to have your provincial government say , in effect , " Look how well we treat you . 
first measure : 
Dr. Martin Luther King , Jr. 
the Department of Agriculture and Agri - Food does not produce incorrect or misleading information . 
Mr. Speaker , the hon. member mentioned the former minister of health , Monique B é gin . 
do members have to wear their jackets only if they are voting or otherwise ? 
nays 
it is the speech that Mario Dumont - I think you know Mr. Dumont - made on TV regarding Bill 99 and the federal legislation on referendum rules . 
we have lived with the problem of the Musqueam reserve in British Columbia . 
the Speaker : 
we were all pooh - poohed by the government and told that we did not know what we were talking about . 
hon. B . Alasdair Graham : 
these are the industries our town continues to depend on to this day . 
motion No. 414 negatived 
nays 
child Pornography 
we have been working closely with our partners in the United States to improve our crime databases and on joint efforts to track and apprehend international criminals and terrorists . 
Mr. Keith Martin 
however , many applications of research done in space will be used in additional research on Earth . 
my question for the Minister of Human Resources Development is simple . 
that is why I am suggesting that the minister take the plane tonight . 
introduction and first reading 
all those in favour will please say yea . 
i ask all hon. members to address their remarks through the Chair . 
that is not fearmongering . 
we in the House know that the committee passed a controversial amendment on the unwise 50:50 plan of spending balanced with tax relief and debt reduction only to have this reversed the next when the word came down . 
Mr. Speaker , the Canadian people are entitled to an enlightened debate on the issue of taxes . 
telecommunications ACT 
honourable senators , I wanted to ask a question of the Honourable Senator Carstairs and I was quietly waiting my turn , as I always do . 
that does not mean that everything in Canada is as it should be for everyone . It is not . 
moreover , the rules of procedure laid down by the committee endorse the whole undemocratic operation orchestrated by the champion of arrogance in the House , the Prime Minister of Canada . 
hon. Sheila Finestone : 
we already have problems , but we will have more . 
that statement may mean that the government has finally realized that there is a problem . 
this means the Nisga ' a laws will be subject to the charter as will Nisga ' a government decisions , for example , in issuing permits or selling land . 
Mr. Mac Harb ( Ottawa Centre , Lib . ) moved for leave to introduce Bill C - 374 , an act to amend the Canada Shipping Act ( definitions of child and infant ) . 
madam Speaker , the Tory member wants to heckle . 
it should be an informed debate . 
this pleases me a great deal . 
the Nisga ' a have no intention of submitting these overlapping claims to arbitration . 
again , the Senate committee was not the first to recommend a clarification of the law in this area . 
madam JUSTICE BEVERLEY MCLACHLIN 
it was a way of life that many people preferred to choose . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 115 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
our government promised in the red book in 1993 that we would consult Canadians on the budget . 
British Columbia is preparing to pass legislation . 
that Bill C - 2 , in Clause 409 , be amended by replacing , in the French version , lines 37 and 38 on page 167 with the following : 
during consideration in committee , this became much broader , going from exempting the people doing the investigations to exempting people investigating activities suspected of posing a threat to Canada ' s security . 
here were men and women committed to building a stronger Canada and a better quality of life for their children and grandchildren . 
however , in 1997 , after the city was amalgamated , he joined the city council and was elected to that council . 
globalization is a very important phenomenon , and it is having major impacts on the lives of all Canadians and on all businesses in Canada . 
the loss of these two might actually help the Canadian environment . 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay 
it is as if we lacked the maturity to do anything new . 
another example was even in the smallest detail as an MP phoning and requesting some information from a minister and being told that it was confidential . 
i listened to their dreams and their plans for the future . 
he can say whatever he wishes in terms of definition . 
members 
Mr. Speaker , Canadians interested in sports have suffered the setbacks of watching some of their own athletes accused of taking illicit drugs . 
Mr. Myron Thompson ( Wild Rose , Ref. ) : 
we learned that despite the blustering from the minister that the matter would be thoroughly investigated , a ministerial briefing note had mentioned the issue in 1995 . 
nays 
they believe that the Canadian Standards Association code on which the bill is based is inadequate in respect of the health care sector , and they believe , as they said , that this bill appears to have access to information as its dominant value . 
on this issue he is correct . 
Mohawk leaders have made it clear that the shipment of plutonium will not occur on their land . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. Speaker , the common practice of the government is to work with communities with high unemployment to ensure that they have the opportunities that the rest of Canada has to benefit from the successes of our great country . 
agreed . 
or , there is the argument that members have the option to question the minister in question period . 
let us hear what the people have to say . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise today to speak to Bill C - 2 , an act respecting the election of members to the House of Commons , repealing other Acts relating to elections and making consequential amendments to other Acts . 
members 
Mr. Monte Solberg : 
it will not be based on government subsidies but on the fact that it will have access to materials , natural resources and the technology that is all part of the modern natural resource industry . 
* * * 
Mr. Speaker , Bill C - 20 limits the democratic rights of the Quebec people . 
hear , hear . 
Mr. Speaker , I wonder whether the Canadian government would be prepared to take the position that de - alerting would be a good thing to do . 
is there leave , honourable senators , for the honourable senator to continue her speech ? 
they are required to use the medical exemption which is an exemption designed for catastrophic health events in a person ' s life on an ongoing basis . 
after all , one cannot get something for nothing , and money spent on improving our colleges and universities , and providing financial incentives to pursue higher education , is indeed an investment . 
Mr. Speaker , I realize that my friend was not particularly enamoured with the fact that under section 47 the bureau was given an advisory role , but I think he will agree that the report which has come from the bureau in the last few days is a comprehensive one and certainly has helped us , helped me , in developing the guidelines which I brought before the committee on Wednesday of this week . 
the ability within the electronic distribution channels to bypass any or all of these traditional middlemen between producer and consumer raises serious issues for the collection of taxes , particularly withholding taxes . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
however , immigration officers told the Senate special committee that the training and the fingerprinting equipment they are required to use are so inadequate that the prints are largely useless and they are usually simply warehoused . 
i am pleased that in my riding of Kitchener Centre and in the surrounding area a number of special events are being planned . 
report STAGE 
it was expected that the immigrant , along with everyone else , would join in the social process , which was democratic , co - operative and other - directed . 
it is time that our government began recognizing the importance of the food industry to the overall economy before it is too late . 
Mr. Speaker , I want to inform members that we have 30,000 projects under grants and contributions . 
in a democracy , the wishes of the people , which have been so clearly expressed , would result in some action that would reflect the wishes of Canadian citizens . 
contributions from its partners in dollars and services were valued at $ 85 million in 1998 - 99 . 
it is time the government rolled up its sleeves and gave us the viable agriculture sector that is so important to our national interest . 
i will hear this and then I will hear your point of order . 
in his view , the signatures indicated only that the issue at which the bill was aimed was one deserving of debate . 
i urge that CMHC be maintained as a strong and viable federal agency so that it can continue as a national oversight authority in housing . 
i have a copy of his letter here which I have already read . 
it is a great province . 
there are two minutes left for questions or comments from the member for Chicoutimi , and one minute for a response . 
hear , hear . 
fisheries 
nays 
will the minister finally realize that no Quebec premier , not even Robert Bourassa , ever wanted to sign that constitution , and that no one in Quebec will ever sign it ? 
does it want to establish another order of government ? 
members 
they do not commit attempted murder or manslaughter or aggravated assault or rape . 
obviously , we must first clean up our own backyard , but my question to the hon. member is about what goes on at the international level . 
but as we look around the world we see that Canada still operates in some areas where we can improve our democratic system . 
i refer to the Grand - M è re Inn in the Prime Minister ' s own riding , the Pierre Corbeil story , an enterprising young Liberal , an individual who thought that he could lever some money for the Liberal coffers by going to them and saying " If you give me a donation , we will make sure your TJF application gets approved '' . 
( division 320 ) 
Mr. Paul Cr ê te 
Ms. Sarmite Bulte 
presence IN GALLERY 
Jamaica - 1 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay ( Solicitor General of Canada , Lib . ) : 
the meetings were held in Seattle , where the WTO talks were expected to be launched . 
why ? 
unfortunately , this was not a popular initiative among the general public . 
maybe we could save some costs on the celebration . 
Mr. Speaker , I agree with the minister . 
this study will show us what we must do to help the RCMP fulfill its mandate , which is getting larger every day . 
it is about taking information that says we can do a better job , making it public , building a plan of action that is approved by experts from the outside , and then committing to the people of the country to implement it , to fix the problem , to make it work and together to continue to build a strong Canada . 
i could not help but remember something that happened in my riding a couple of years ago . 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
senator Cohen has listed some of the letters sent to parliamentarians . 
Mr. John Solomon 
for any members who wish to see the amendments , they will be deposited in both languages at the table . 
the two laws require the companies to obtain the approval of the individual before gathering , using or disclosing personal information on him . 
give some authority back to the parents . 
the prognosis for democracy in Quebec and in Canada is not good . 
take for example the tar ponds on Cape Breton Island , a toxic wasteland which has wreaked havoc on the health of the people in the local area and on the environment . 
senator Boudreau : 
the government chose to invoke time allocation after four hours and 12 minutes of debate . 
that Bill C - 9 be amended by adding after line 29 on page 7 the following new clause : 
agreed . 
they can release names of young offenders . 
with respect to the notion that all law - making authority must be found only in the Constitution Act , 1867 , Professor Sanders of the University of British Columbia said in his evidence : 
( the House divided on the motion , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
" possible " 
supreme COURT ACT 
the Liberal government ' s conditional sentencing law allows some convicted violent criminals to serve their sentences in the community , not in prison . 
i can understand how any group of independent truckers might feel if faced with competing with a monopoly . 
as I said yesterday we feel that situation will be resolved . 
the usual do nothing approach advocated by the government is simply not good enough any more . 
Mr. Speaker , I appreciate the member ' s comments about the amazing richness of her community in presenting some of our most innovative cultural manifestations . 
agreed . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
national PARKS 
i would like to say a few words on several matters not included in the throne speech , inadvertently no doubt . 
behind the scenes , it was mentioned that Mr. Bouchard , who was expecting a lot more support , was stunned when he heard the results in the presence of his closest advisers . 
honourable senators , I was to present the report last week but then was told to wait . 
shame on the NDP . 
let us assume then that there have been changes since the policy was released five years ago . 
honourable senators , I move that this report be adopted . 
the Government of Canada has acted in much the same way that previous governments in Saskatchewan have acted . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
there is the low income cutoff in Canada below which everyone is considered to be of low income or in poverty . 
the Estimates , 2000 - 01 
here we have a young generation that will not be farming because of these agricultural policies initiated by the government opposite . 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
government ORDERS 
Mr. Speaker , at the outset I would ask the Chair to recognize that I will be splitting my time with my colleague from West Nova , who will be speaking to the issue of fisheries . 
the next question is on Motion No. 119 . 
note : 
in October the Prime Minister shared his vision for the new millennium : a nation built on learning , innovation and excellence . 
we also deal with sending the message to those involved in people smuggling that if they want to make money smuggling people into Canada they are no longer going to be able to do it because , by gosh , Canada deals with these situations quickly , firmly and we act on the hearings while still respecting the UN convention on refugees . 
it is also declining in value and historical significance because of changes in forest composition after the first cut . 
all too often , especially with this government , it makes the claim that it is listening to the people only to turn around and do something exactly opposite to the will of the people . 
the first one concerns the procedure for drafting the question . 
Mr. Joe McGuire 
it is to hear testimony , to listen to expert opinion , and to challenge each other about what we are trying to create so that we create a better piece of legislation . 
if the Fisheries Committee examines the expenditures related to the Department of Fisheries and Oceans , that would also accommodate Senator Robichaud ' s request and will not interfere with what Senator Murray wants . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
of course , he is convinced that the good times were more important than the more difficult ones , which is totally his right . 
orders OF THE DAY 
( a ) sustain a vibrant and profitable Canadian tourism industry ; 
i thought , naively perhaps , that these principles were worth something . 
Mr. Speaker , surely , the hon. member knows that , last year , health transfers to the provinces were raised in excess of $ 11.5 billion over five years . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
he is the only one who believes what he is saying . 
having said that I have no doubt that I have brought Senator Kinsella small comfort in respect of his concerns about Bill C - 20 . However , with regard to this particular bill , his point has been well made and well taken . 
the new act will also prohibit the transfer of surplus funds from a party or local association to a candidate after polling day . 
the Liberals said no to debate . 
as they do not have to keep to a contribution limit , corporations may contribute huge sums to the federal political parties of their choice , and , need I point out , these contributions certainly do not go to political parties for purely philanthropic purposes . 
can the Minister of Transport assure us that the hope of acceptance for his proposal on which Onex ' s president is relying is not the direct result of personal guarantees received from certain members of the government since the beginning of this affair ? 
that is why the Parliament of Canada extended benefits in the first place . 
honourable senators , as long as my country has existed , it has been very well organized . 
Mrs. Karen Redman ( Kitchener Centre , Lib . ) : 
sir John A . Macdonald Day Bill 
that is where we are now because the hon. member for Broadview - Greenwood had not begun to speak . 
motion No. 138 
the rest of the groupings are as follows : 
. [ text ] 
for want of a better term may I suggest that it be called the three silos concept . 
on behalf of the PC Party I refuse to blindly support Bill C - 6 for the sake of getting a law , any law , on personal privacy and e - commerce . 
* * * 
we are a part of Canadian society , and until we address these issues of racial discrimination facing our aboriginal peoples in this country , the division between our people and Canadians will only continue to get wider . 
i was reading not so long ago in the Montreal Gazette that the member for Cumberland - Colchester accused the minister of changing the ground rules to favour the Onex takeover bid . 
some hon. members : 
the input from aboriginal peoples is not clear . 
resuming debate on Group No. 2 . 
why will he not withdraw the bill , send it back to committee and let us have another look at it ? 
we have approximately 60,000 new cases every year . 
the reason this industry is lucrative is that lobster fishers have adopted licences , carapace sizes , trap limits and an inhospitable winter season to assure a quality product for domestic and export markets . 
however , she is proposing now , according to my reading , something much larger . 
how are they and their society going to get the pride and self - respect that they so richly deserve ? 
that is what the 10 premiers want . 
the hon. minister ' s party does not believe in tax relief . 
for example , given that data moves easily across the borders of the 13 provinces and territories , the privacy commissioner is in the best position to investigate transborder problems and resolve them . 
i see a passing of the buck and a battle of the numbers . 
order , please . 
- on order of the Senate , bills , messages , petitions , inquiries , papers and other matters relating to fisheries generally . 
i too work with the disadvantaged and the poor in my riding of Matap é dia - Matane . 
trade 
( division 610 ) 
the principle of Royal Assent stands , but the ceremony would be performed differently . 
Mr. Randy White 
we are happy with that . 
this is the only way , not just to ensure the safety of our communities , not just to save money , but also to save the young person himself . 
first , the minister responsible must be invited to the announcement and , second , the Government of Canada must get the last word at the press conference . 
motion No. 108 negatived 
this is a weak statement . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 128 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
i think there are two main anomalies in the Canadian system : one at the top and one at the bottom . 
we must stop those senseless crimes against humanity by recalling history so that our children may learn from our past mistakes . 
that barrier must absolutely be eliminated in order to promote Canadian unity through exchanges involving young Canadians . 
Mr. Maurizio Bevilacqua : 
Mr. Speaker , I am not trying to promote any airline . 
that is the purpose of this bill . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
canada ' s women veterans of World War II have been recognized locally with memorials such as the tri - service statue in Winnipeg and bronze statues in Brantford , but there are few others . 
i agree wholeheartedly . 
in the context of the global knowledge based economy , government increasingly must make a strong effort to explain its new role as facilitator and as an enabling partner with other sectors of society and to act as a non - financial broker of ideas and unifying national projects . 
an hon. member : 
china - Influence of Environmental Policy in Granting of Funds to Three Gorges Dam Project 
as Mr. Lucien Bouchard pout it so eloquently on July 1 , 1988 , " Canada was born 121 years ago , as the result of a process that drew on the sources of dialogue , negotiation , and openness '' . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
staff Sergeant Montague ' s letter was really a public cry to the solicitor general and to the government to provide the RCMP with the financial support they need to uphold Canada ' s laws . 
" when the current government boasts about the economic results , which are starting to look good , it does so as the heir to the Conservatives , as the manager of strategic decisions that were made by its predecessor '' . 
members 
a doubling of federal funding for health research , a co - ordination of every one of the disciplines involved in health inquiry , a new approach to organizing and carrying out scientific inquiry for health purposes , all of this has been inspired by excellence . 
hopefully , he will get through as well . 
it is the intention of these amendments to allow time for the Government of Canada to wake up to what the lawyers , constitutional experts , historians and many other learned people are saying about the problems with Bill C - 9 . 
Mr. Michel Gauthier ( Roberval , BQ ) : 
why is it that members of the Reform Party want us to repeal our ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child which clearly protects the fundamental human rights of children , including protection from child pornography . 
* * * 
it outlined a commitment to protect and improve the social programs we all hold very dear while not abandoning our commitment to fiscal responsibility . 
Mr. Speaker , as far as the regions are concerned , this is again an invention by this government , an invention for interference , differing regional rates , so as to penalize all of the unemployed . 
it will offer the protection of a number of important pieces of legislation , including the Criminal Code , to which my colleague referred . 
we need a government that is responsible in both social and economic terms . 
the government ' s new estimates show $ 35 million for gun control and only $ 13.8 million for the RCMP . 
we have equipment that has been in service for a considerable period of time , and the Minister of National Defence has made it his priority to have this equipment replaced as quickly as reasonably possible . 
all right , we have gone as far down that road as we probably should . 
that is a very important clause because it completely hobbles the governments in waiting once they become government . 
people who are working hard to make ends meet are being put on the welfare lines simply because of poor management decisions by the government . 
in my opinion the question is out of order , but if the government House leader wishes to address it , he may do so . 
let me respond to what my colleague has said . 
Mr. Darrel Stinson : 
Mr. Peter MacKay ( Pictou - Antigonish - Guysborough , PC ) : 
the real possibility of criminal charges will finally force company officials to make safety the top priority . 
i am also very surprised to see that federal Liberal members from Quebec are not interested in this issue and come to the House only to reiterate what has been said by the industry minister , who does not seem to care much about what is going on in Quebec in this area as in many others . 
we should require returning officers to select assistant returning officers , deputy returning officers and poll clerks on the basis of merit , as determined through competitions and open hiring practices that are publicly advertised and open to all Canadians . 
i find it rather disturbing , with all the serious problems facing Canadians throughout the country , that the hon. member for Sarnia - Lambton would choose to introduce a motion calling for the introduction of television cameras in the Senate to cover Senate proceedings . 
the next question is on Motion No. 167 . 
i would like clarification from you , Mr. Speaker . Is lying allowed in the House ? 
from there it will go to a committee where experts , from a variety of backgrounds , will comment on the pros and cons of the treaty . 
division No. 598 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the Bloc Quebecois , whose support for increased R and D funding is unwavering , salutes the efforts of the scientists who were involved in the drafting of the bill to ensure they would have access to innovative tools to improve the dissemination of health information and facilitate the development of cutting edge technologies in this area . 
furious , the adjudicator then ordered summonses for all the top managers involved in this case who have since indicated that they will not appear . 
from 1990 onward the negotiators conducted extensive consultations with the public and third parties . Advisory committees included the Kitimat - Skeena Regional Advisory Committee , made up of a broad range of community , local government , wildlife , fisheries , business , resource sector , and labour interests ; the Nisga ' a Fisheries Committee , made up of province - wide and local commercial fishing interests , processors , unions and Terrace sport fishing interests ; the Nisga ' a Forestry Advisory Committee , made up of the area ' s forestry companies and the Council of Forest Industries ; the Nass Valley Residents Association , made up of the existing private property owners and residents of the Nass Valley , who told us personally that they were delighted with the Nisga ' a agreement and supported it wholeheartedly ; the Skeena Treaty Advisory Committee , made up of local government representatives from municipal governments and the two regional districts , Skeena - Queen Charlotte and Kitimat - Stikine ; the Treaty Negotiation Advisory Committee and its sectoral committees , established in 1993 as a federal - provincial , ministerially appointed committee of 31 organizations which has sectoral committees for government , fisheries , lands , forest , wildlife and compensation ; and the Certainty Working Group , which was established to review and discuss approaches to certainty . 
some people may ask right off the bat why that should be . 
in all honesty , my constituents will not be able to support such a bill once they know what it is all about . 
hon. Elinor Caplan ( Minister of Citizenship and Immigration , Lib . ) : 
motion No. 71 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
if he does not have a copy as yet , I will deliver one to him at the earliest possible moment . 
instead everything is in limbo and subject to abuse . 
i also said I would work toward implementing the platform of the Liberal Party , an ambitious economic , social and cultural platform . 
that the House do now proceed to orders of the day . 
we have to somehow keep that as our primary focus in all of the remarks we make . 
it is not the finance minister nor the government that balanced the budget ; it was balanced on the backs of taxpayers . 
the Prime Minister , who says he wants to go down in history as the person who saved Canada , may well be remembered as the Prime Minister who ignored democracy in Canada and in Quebec . 
why is the government showing such blatant favouritism toward one of the proponents of the Onex merger ? 
the areas where federal or provincial law would prevail include environmental assessment and protection , public order , peace and safety , health services , social services , buildings and public works , traffic and transportation , solemnization of marriage , fish and wildlife sales and the regulation of intoxicants . 
miss Deborah Grey 
members 
motion No. 149 
certainly , although I am very busy tonight . 
there is a scandal going on at the present time . 
genetically MODIFIED FOODS 
i encourage all of those who need money soon to submit an application as quickly as possible . 
why is that not fixed ? 
34 and 35 , and to ask the United States to ratify that convention . 
that is why we have put forward so many amendments . 
there will be another budget and it will be on Monday , February 28 . 
those consulted told us that they wanted all citizens to be subject to the same taxation regimes . 
this is a major problem . 
we just heard a speech on the issue of political party financing . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 417 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
senator Lynch - Staunton : 
an hon. member : 
it does not know the meaning of the word accountability . 
Mr. Speaker , I know the member from British Columbia is loud and proud . 
Ms. Val Meredith ( South Surrey - White Rock - Langley , Ref. ) : 
the figures on representation in this place and the other will continue to reflect these distinctions until such time as there is acceptance of the fact that a person is a person and nothing else , nothing more , and nothing less . 
she is not asking for money ; she would just like to be granted loans like everybody else . 
Mr. Speaker , I am always interested in the member ' s comments . 
is there unanimous consent to ask the member questions ? 
that is what he did . 
members 
whether they were here or in my home province of Manitoba , they have all had one similar characteristic . 
such action will certainly heighten tensions in an already hostile environment . 
one might wonder why I would use my 10 minutes to talk about agriculture . 
for them it is this or nothing . 
hon. Harbance Singh Dhaliwal 
in fact that is wrong , wrong , wrong . 
today in the interest of time and procedure , it is the disingenuous , disruptive spirit of this bill rather than its blatantly flawed details that I will address during the time I have been given . 
it was also during the days of the famous Diefenbaker - Pearson debates which became rather acrimonious at times and , as I understand , very heated . 
i recognize , as all of my colleagues do , that the federalist option is a legitimate one . 
people say that they just want everybody to be treated equally , in other words , treated the same . 
global ENERGY REGULATION FORUM 
you have heard the terms of the motion . 
once the provinces and the federal government have agreement then the money will flow . 
thank you and , more importantly , we hope that the Bloc Quebecois will continue its good work in promoting Canadian unity . 
we were under considerable pressure at committee to get it through the whole process . 
therefore , it provides work to its employees only 10 or 12 weeks out of the year , during the summer months . 
most of the members of the House understand this , but for those who are listening , unfortunately there are more private members ' bills than we can get to the floor of the House so there has to be a draw . 
back in his righteous days he said , " When you are a minister and your bureaucrats do well , you take the credit . 
is there unanimous consent to extend the period for questions by five minutes ? 
rule 56 ( 3 ) of the Rules of the Senate addresses the matter of the giving of a notice : 
hon. Senators : 
members 
taxation 
the bulk of my practice was civil litigation . 
now , we seldom sit on a Monday evening , but we still aim for a short Wednesday . 
how did it happen , however , that we found ourselves in the situation - in the case of Quebec - where only the representatives of the Liberal Party were in favour ? 
it gives me a great deal of pleasure to tell the people of Canada about the strength of the opposition in the House , because if it were not for the Bloc Quebecois - and I give them full marks - if it were not for the pressure of the Conservatives and also of the Reform Party , this kind of motion would never have come to the House . 
very clearly , we will support this bill . 
we cannot have a situation like occurred in Bosnia where soldiers helplessly watched while innocent citizens were gunned down . 
at the present time she is actively involved in the Liberal Association in the riding of Abitibi West . 
this week , at the Standing Committee on Human Resources Development , we will be asking that not only the current Minister of Human Resources Development but also her predecessor appear before the committee to tell us about the period targeted by the internal audit , that is from April 1997 to June 1998 , when the current minister ' s predecessor was in charge . 
motion No. 289 negatived 
Indian affairs is the problem ! 
this is about knowing the long - term implications of government policy decisions . 
if I have a heart attack here , in the House , fighting for the people in the Atlantic region , it will have been worth it . 
honourable senators , I hope I have not inadvertently breached any rules of this house . 
in Canada and Quebec , there are groups working at the site of conflicts around the world . 
he came to Canada at the age of two or three . 
it is also important to note that the Privacy Commissioner , as well as the jurisdictions supplying data to update the National Register of Electors , have the right to audit Elections Canada ' s entire process at any time - examining how information for the Register is collected , stored , updated and used - to ensure that the electors ` right to privacy is respected . 
we offer him this richly deserved tribute , along with our sincere condolences to his family members . 
whether or not one supports the bill , there is a general agreement that the Royal Assent ceremony as presently carried out does not do justice to its significance . 
agriculture 
at the next sitting of the House ? 
this bill proposes changes to the Canada Elections Act . 
the Bloc Quebecois voted against a veto for Quebec in this House . 
honourable senators , the minister suggested to me that the government decided to act at this time because the Premier of Quebec announced he wanted to hold a referendum . 
it is the same as a family that uses an overdraft to buy food and then piles the overdraft on top of the mortgage . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
Mr. Derek Lee : 
hon. Jane Stewart 
it has placed very tight restrictions on the ability of people to have freedom of speech during elections , to give them mere pennies on the dollar for what registered political parties can say during elections . 
let me briefly explain to what happened . 
we need a university system that is characterized by excellence , accessibility , diversity and flexibility . 
society has had it with these people and it wants to have the problem put to an end . 
reform ' S TERRITORIAL PROTECTION ACT 
* * * 
these efforts will also reduce part of the problem . 
the group members are committed to promoting and implementing the 40 FATF recommendations . 
however six of us did come to the dinner . 
the Speaker 
i have a copy of that bill . 
they have reaffirmed that medicare is an anchor of the Canadian identity . 
one such company is SRB Technologies of Pembroke . 
Mr. Speaker , the Prime Minister says that he never interfered directly with the APEC security . 
now that is a clear majority . 
members 
we will recall that , last fall , the government had decided to postpone the opening of parliament , because of its very poor legislative performance . 
on page 906 of the Debates of the Senate for March 30 , he asked : 
No. 
the volume of air that a sleeping infant breathes is twice that of an adult at rest . 
Mr. Pierre Brien : 
No. 
it was a 1969 decision in the Queen and Calder v the Attorney General of British Columbia case , and subsequently in 1973 a ruling from the Supreme Court of Canada in that case , which opened the door to the negotiated land claims settlement for the Nisga ' a . 
instead of the minister coming along with his colleague , the minister of Indian affairs , both of them proud as punch , to inform us that everything is just fine , that there are no problems , that now there is a moratorium , that the people will talk to each other , he should hop a plane this very night with his colleague , go down there to sit down and define what is a reasonable livelihood . 
in an attempt to correct this longstanding problem , the witness protection program was created . 
we wish him our best . 
we can list many of them and we will over the course of the days ahead . 
" ma î tres chez nous " , " é galit é ou ind é pendance " and " souverainet é - association " , for example , are the natural heirs of what was once called " autonomie provinciale " . 
we are happy to leave the decision on whether this constitutes a matter of urgent public importance to the discretion of the Speaker , as required under the rules . 
we heard a passing reference to homelessness , but nothing about providing affordable housing . 
well , that is his privilege . 
for example , we believe that there should be encouragement for parties to recruit more women candidates . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
my colleague who spoke before me referred to the election of a majority government as a four or five year dictatorship with no accountability . 
i will conclude by asking all members of this House to ensure that transfer payments are restored , to make sure that the provinces , which are responsible for the health care system , can meet the needs of all their clienteles , including the veterans , with new moneys . 
however , the Maritime Provinces Higher Education Commission conducted a similar study and published its results in October 1997 . 
to be able to work together , countries have to agree on some rules . 
as a minister of the government , I want to report to the House that we should all be in the debt of these public - spirited persons who took so much time from their lives to make the remarkable effort to pull together the proposals that have now been expressed in the proposed legislation , which is Bill C - 13 . 
Mr. Speaker , again , we must emphasize the support of the Bloc Quebecois to a united Canada with well provided for armed forces . 
child PORNOGRAPHY 
i understand that answer . 
north America Free Trade Agreement - Suit by California Company over Loss of Contract for Bulk Water - Government Position 
honourable senators , I rise on a point of order . 
we do not help by asking if there will be a flood in Mozambique . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
i will repeat that for my colleague over there from Vancouver city . 
does the hon. member for Saanich - Gulf Islands yield ? 
Mr. Speaker , I am presenting today a number of petitions with thousands of names of people who draw the attention of the House to the significant contribution that adoptive parents make . 
nays 
business of the Senate 
deterioration of Services - Inquiry - Debate adjourned 
the reliance of the Nisga ' a people on transfers will be reduced over time and it will contribute to the cost of programs and services through the operation of an own source revenue agreement . 
research AND DEVELOPMENT 
i want to congratulate my colleagues in the Bloc Party for bringing this to the floor of the House . 
Mr. Greg Thompson : 
stoves and furnaces in destroyed houses ignited what remained of the dilapidated structures and blazes raged through the city . 
Mr. Garry Breitkreuz ( Yorkton - Melville , Ref. ) : 
i cannot argue with that . 
as all the members who spoke before me said , regardless of their political affiliation , even if we applaud heartily the government ' s decision to invest in research , we have some concerns about how the institutes will be established and managed . 
* * * 
find new markets for new products and services developed through research by universities and government research centres . 
instead , we rolled up our sleeves and we turned our country around . 
dispense ! 
division on Motion No. 73 deferred . 
i believe criticism of the Board of Internal Economy made in this way in the House is not acceptable . 
i received the information . 
if such information is needed for testing of new drugs , then a balance must be found . 
that means improving literacy , without question . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
civil International Space Station Agreement Implementation Bill 
when the bill goes to committee , I am sure that anything that needs to be clarified or added will be dealt with . 
we expected it to do something in the area of organized crime , on the issue of money laundering , for example . 
the minister released it . 
although we hear time and time again about public safety being the number one priority , it has become clear that it does not even appear to rank in the top 10 when we look at this document and what is being done by the department . 
he denies the fact that this department handled 30,000 cases . 
the provinces , the territories and the federal government are working together . 
i declare Motion No. 76 lost . 
i want to make myself clear , we consider the role played by the Export Development Corporation both positive and vital , but we feel it must conduct itself as a crown corporation of a country that cannot blindly encourage and support exports and investments abroad without considering the effects of its action . 
nays 
surely there are very few issues in any democracy that are more important than keeping the country together . 
that is not the purpose of representations at all . 
Mr. Rick Borotsik ( Brandon - Souris , PC ) : 
when we think of equality we should realize that being equal does not mean everybody being the same . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. Rick Casson 
in the past 25 years , the government has invested $ 1.5 billion , or $ 1 million for every one job . 
it has taken billions and billions of dollars out of it and thrown the responsibility to the provinces to maintain the level of service . 
it is the single largest investment the government has ever made , signalling the priority that we put on health and health care . 
members 
hon. John Manley ( Minister of Industry , Lib . ) : 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
my question is simple and straightforward . 
it is like the Nisga ' a agreement again . 
of the 459 we have these percentages . 
economic DEVELOPMENT 
that Bill C - 9 be amended by adding after line 29 on page 7 the following new clause : 
the second report relates to the attendance of the Canadian delegation at the expanded bureau meeting of the summit of the Organization for Security and Co - operation in Europe . 
Mr. Richard M. Harris : 
agreed . 
it remains beyond our imagination . 
if they wait a little longer the program will work . 
( division 465 ) 
that program is funded 60 % by the federal government and 40 % by the provincial government . 
the Ottawa Senators , which are also in financial difficulty , found $ 6,235 in 1996 - 97 to put in the election fund of the Liberal Party . 
in the 1930 s , a group of Quebec women , La Solidarit é f é minine , organized a series of public protests against rent increases , unemployment and the cost of living to bring attention to the plight of women during the Depression . 
although the bill focuses on commercial activity , it is clear that this activity cannot be distinguished from health care activity in a way that will ensure that health records are subject to different rules than those pertaining to other records . 
why did we do so ? 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
agreed . 
in the case of summary conviction offences , this requires a three - year , crime - free period after completion of any and all sentences . 
the notion of sanctions or penalties already exists . 
members 
will the government review its Cuba policy ? 
to ensure that participation , we must move quickly to provide Canadians with the necessary access , skills and confidence that this new technology will not erode the privacy they now have and enjoy with respect to the way in which their personal information is handled . 
that Bill C - 9 , in the preamble , be amended by replacing line 9 on page 1 with the following : 
my colleague , who is currently being sued seemingly for his political opinions with respect to remarks make regarding the other House , finds himself unable to defend himself or , in the end , limited to his own means . 
agreed . 
the Estimates , 1999 - 2000 
not only does it threaten the commercial interests of those ranchers , orchardists and farmers , but it threatens the whole B.C. agricultural land reserve . 
senator Austin : 
introduction and first reading 
why does the government constantly seek to invoke closure , an undemocratic , cowardly and desperate act that attempts to smother free speech in the House ? 
i ask the Prime Minister , who talks to us about collaboration , partnership and understanding , how he can stand by and watch his minister do absolutely nothing to help save the Boisbriand plant . 
nays 
i ask for unanimous consent of the House to refer the subject matter of Bill C - 224 , the recognition of crimes against humanity act , to the Standing Committee on Canadian Heritage for review and report no later than April 14 , 2000 . 
it was agreed that further analysis and discussions were required to enable ministers to decide on the next five year framework agreement at their February 2000 meeting . 
we wish all the young Canadians who will have an opportunity to take advantage of this the best of luck . 
in my opinion the nays have it . 
the section 47 process that we brought forward on August 13 is working because we now have private sector proposals that allow the restructuring of the airline industry . 
the Speech from the Throne says nothing about all the complicated workings of governmental affairs . 
( division 107 ) 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron : 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron ( Verch è res - Les - Patriotes , BQ ) moved : 
this is important , because , failing such a determination , there would be no duty to negotiate . 
canada is one of the western democracies that go around preaching to the whole world on how things should be done . 
the hon. member was quite right in pointing out a concern about how the appointments will be made . 
later this evening we are to have a take note debate on some of the tensions created in the fishery industry . 
that gives some indication of what the Reform Party really thinks of aboriginal people . 
in expressing this thankfulness for family I am not denying for a moment the importance of government services , whether it is health , education or social assistance , that help the well - being of families . 
i will wait to address that issue later . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
paired 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Charlie Penson 
( l ) to the recommendation by the United Kingdom Prime Minister Tony Blair to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II for the appointment to the House of Lords as a non - hereditary peer and lord of Mr. Conrad Black , a distinguished Canadian , publisher , entrepreneur and also the Honorary Colonel of the Governor General ' s Foot Guards of Canada ; 
Mr. Antoine Dub é ( L é vis - et - Chutes - de - la - Chaudi è re , BQ ) : 
employment INSURANCE 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. John Cummins : 
i declare Motion No. 457 lost . 
this is an excellent example . 
delayed Answers to Oral Questions 
i am not sure that it is relevant right now . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 124 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
motion No. 90 
he alluded to a conversation . 
paired 
request FOR EMERGENCY DEBATE 
these are quite valid reasons and any reasonable person would agree that they are sufficient to justify the disclosure of personal information collected for commercial purposes . 
that is why he and his friends are so consistently rejected by the people of British Columbia . 
now a former U.S. diplomat has criticized the federal government for its anti - democratic tactic . 
member spoke in Cree ] 
everything I have ever read and my common sense tells me that there are a couple of things inherent in the idea of justice . 
hon. Paul Martin 
yeas 
all the funds ! 
in the first century and a half of Canada ' s electoral history from 1759 to 1920 it was mainly a story of extending the vote to people previously excluded by reason of income , sex , race or religion . 
however , as with most things where the government is involved , the price tag will no doubt actually be much higher than that . 
however , I caution the minister that merely looking at the figure might not give him the answer . 
that is terrific except that the province of British Columbia alone has a shortage of 500 members at this point . 
Mr. Jason Kenney 
we went to a regional board . 
let us come back to my own province . 
thousands of farm families are being forced off the land and we are being told it is the inevitable consequence of technological progress , but industrialization in this sector is neither inevitable nor progress . 
do you know what the coast guard is doing ? 
( a ) in lieu of a real property tax for a taxation year , and 
Ms. Alexa McDonough 
it is only natural that we would be in favour of the approach taken by the Nisga ' a in their quest for autonomy . 
Mr. Ovid L . Jackson ( Bruce - Grey , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to make a couple of comments on the way the bill is being administered . 
the commitment is there because that is the choice the government has made '' . 
department officials told the health committee that xeno transplantation was not taking place in Canada . 
the Speaker : 
Mr. Speaker , I understand that some hon. members have been doing some homework and research . 
that was the way it was in Canada . 
fifth Report Presented 
we will not be able to amend it . 
municipally driven is what I would like to see . 
motion No. 206 negatived 
* * * 
European governments are subsidizing this because they cannot sell it for that price . 
it is happening now . 
it is like a negative tax through which they would indicate which political party they favour and want to give it their support , while not depriving them of the right they currently have to finance a political party and to partially benefit from the tax deduction . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
motion No. 204 negatived 
Mr. Peter Adams ( Peterborough , Lib . ) : 
we are pleased that the Solicitor General accepted this recommendation because we think it will ensure that Parliamentarians regularly receive valuable information that will assist us in evaluating whether the operation of the data bank is in conformity with the Charter and the privacy safeguards that exist under the legislation . 
the power of any real democracy should lie in the hands of the people . 
Mr. Speaker , since the minister presumably made some checks , can she confirm that the production company CINAR , which is a contributor to the Liberal Party of Canada and which is headed by Micheline Charest , who is said to have organized a fundraising evening for the Liberal Party of Canada that was attended by the Prime Minister , is not the target of this investigation ? 
only along the path of restorative justice - not retribution and revenge - can we recognize the essence of our common humanity and find true healing and meaningful reconciliation . 
this one says an hour . 
senator Boudreau : 
but the real question is , why is this minister making it so hard to get public information and full disclosure ? 
PETITCODIAC RIVER 
Mr. Speaker , Telefilm Canada is not refusing to answer questions . 
members 
the Deputy Speaker : 
the court chose to add the word clear , a question that should be clear or unambiguous . 
motion No. 185 negatived 
marriage is a relatively old institution . 
( 3 ) The Chief Electoral Officer shall give such notice of a proposed competition as in his or her opinion will give qualified electors a reasonable opportunity of making an application for the position of poll clerk . 
would the hon. member for Lotbini è re please finish his point of order . 
senator Ghitter : 
paired 
Mr. Guy St - Julien 
Mr. Jason Kenney ( Calgary Southeast , Ref. ) : 
he personally put questions to the supreme court , urging it to render a decision on Quebec ' s right to unilaterally secede . 
we never said the Bloc Quebecois was against research institutes . 
we encourage the government to increase its commitment to develop more research into breast cancer . 
the mechanics of requesting and granting unanimous consent must be carefully observed . 
in that sense , the member for Trois - Rivi è res has proposed an interesting amendment , which would allow low income individuals and students to make contributions to political parties and to get a refund even if they do not pay the tax amounts required to become eligible to such refund . 
i did not realize that my colleague was not going to vote . 
while we are talking about a hypocrisy tax , I have just recommended some literature to the hon. member for over the Christmas holidays . 
Mr. Speaker , two people in Quebec were killed by Sylvain Boies , who was under the influence of alcohol and driving a stolen vehicle . 
we also have to look at priorities in terms of our communities . 
CSIS 
concurrence in Vote 1 a - Natural Resources 
if the grain does not reach the port it cannot be shipped out . 
Mr. Juneau made contributions , personal contributions of course , but would present his expense account to the National Battlefields Commission , which would reimburse him without asking any questions . 
we know the Reform Party would love to give a blank cheque to Charlton Heston and the NRA out of Washington , Dallas or wherever to ride into Ottawa on horseback , shooting their pistols in the air , and let them spend whatever they want . 
it is a company that makes peoples ' dreams become reality . 
however , on the heels of the Delgamuukw case and under the conditions of staying the Meares Island case , the provincial government re - examined its stand on the land question . 
i cannot believe that the Liberals talk about grants in lieu of taxes when they have not even had the input from those at the local level whom it will affect . 
( bill deemed read the second time , referred to a committee , reported without amendment ) 
Mr. Paul Szabo : 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 27 , be amended by replacing line 6 on page 10 with the following : 
it allows for joint jurisdiction with other bands , the federal government or the provincial government in some areas . 
this would reduce the government ' s ability to time byelections according to political circumstances and ensure that Canadians would not be unrepresented in the House for unreasonable periods of time . 
i hope and pray that the Nisga ' a people will not be moving from one oppressive regime to another . 
Mr. Garry Breitkreuz ( Yorkton - Melville , Ref. ) : 
it was my obligation as an officer of the court to bring to the attention of my client , who was either responding to a matrimonial situation or initiating it , that reconciliation counselling was available . 
the subcommittee recommended as follows : 
what Canadians accept is the fact that our unemployment levels have continued to come down . 
how can the minister explain his double - speak , saying on the one hand that the purpose of his bill is equity and transparency , while on the other hand maintaining government control over the appointment of the main officials involved ? 
we all want to see a police presence . 
for the hon. member to suggest that there is a so - called surreptitious attempt to do away with the crown is nonsense . 
they are not involved in politics . 
data is not available on gross margins by commodity produced . 
those of us who are New Democrats find this to be a major flaw in the bill . 
this is democracy at its best . 
i think that the 10 % rule will have to stay . 
caffeine has been listed as a food additive in Canada ' s food and drug regulations since inception of the food additive regulations in 1964 , and had been used to modify flavour in cola - type beverages long before that time . 
the Conservative Party has always supported crime prevention and police forces across the country . 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
with respect to the program for the particular farm communities in Saskatchewan and Manitoba to which the honourable senator referred , I unfortunately have not had an opportunity to speak to the Minister of Agriculture over the break . 
members 
honourable senators , I give notice that on Thursday next , December 2 , 1999 , I will move : 
Mr. Pierre de Savoye 
with the closure of the Phalen colliery , a considerable number of miners will be displaced and moved over to the Prince colliery . 
members 
i agree that normally an adjournment motion is not debatable . 
paired 
this House , this place , is anything but a democracy . 
( division 506 ) 
one thing has always been seen as a hindrance to tourism : our winters . 
hon. Paul Martin 
to four provinces where the federal government delivers the program it is now well over $ 200 million . 
CPP premiums are pension contributions and go straight into the CPP fund , which is not part of the consolidated revenue fund . 
i also wonder , if there is an overproduction of agricultural products , what options besides diversification might be proposed to farmers to help them operate according to supply and demand . 
as well , on a personal note , one to which I am sure others can attest , I should like to compliment the senator on his wonderful fashion sense , and would like to have the name of his tailor before he leaves . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
i felt that , if we won in the last election , it would certainly be possible to win again in the next election in Chicoutimi with the existing law . 
without prejudice to the thrust of the text adopted by the members in this House , the motions resulted in four amendments that change the structure of the bill to improve its implementation . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl : 
Mr. Speaker , the minister has only one answer for every question and it is the wrong one . 
therefore , there needs to be some sort of legal framework in place which shows that Canada has certain standards when it comes to privacy that the rest of the world has to take seriously . 
i did indeed receive a letter from them last week . 
Mr. Speaker , it is a pleasure to enter into the debate on the Speech from the Throne . 
the gold lion in the flag therefore reflects New Brunswick ' s relationship to both the Duchy of Brunswick and England . 
the argument raised by Pierre Elliott Trudeau was that it was unconstitutional for a provincial corporation to have more than 10 % of the shares of a national corporation . 
Mr. Grant McNally 
now that there is a real national transportation crisis , created by the government and the minister , will the minister show the same level of concern and involvement ? 
in turn , one of the concerns I have about this or any other legislation , is rather than being tied into something concrete , hard and normal , Bill C - 10 , an act to amend the Municipal Grants Act , does not resolve the problem of where the money is going to come from . 
for each death attributable to a stroke , three victims require prolonged hospitalization as a result of neurological damage . 
it might say " Quebec will indeed have jurisdiction over that area , and we are recognizing your ability to make such a decision '' . 
however , I find Senator Kinsella ' s point most interesting . 
we plant the seeds that one day will grow . 
more than 100 % of the rural land of British Columbia is covered by land claims - overlapping land claims . 
respectfully submitted , 
this is a place , he said , " fixated by the preoccupying image of figures permanently travelling or portaging their past - we are all still arriving . 
this audit was undertaken to check the administrative practices of grants and contributions in the Department of Human Resources Development . 
it belongs to the Government of Canada and to the people of Canada . 
( bill read the third time and passed ) 
it would update the status of the withholding and the withdrawing of life - sustaining treatment in Canada , including the progress of implementation of the 1995 committee ' s unanimous recommendations . 
the government taxed people 2.2 cents a litre . 
i remember participating in a vigorous debate in the House of Commons with the Right Honourable John Diefenbaker , who was a very good friend of mine . 
it is totally unreasonable for the member for Athabasca to have expected me to go to him and 112 other members to detail every change I contemplated with the bill . 
Mr. Andr é Harvey 
it is the Gitanyow and the Gitxsan who are fighting for their rights . 
however , to say that the federal government has no role to play in health care other than sending a cheque would be a mistake . 
when he says it is not an entire industry that is affected by these low commodity prices , just little pockets here and there , a little wee problem that the opposition seems to be narrowly focusing on to quote the hon. member , I cannot believe it . 
finance 
the Deputy Speaker : 
if the House gives its consent , I intend to move concurrence in the eighth report later this day . 
there is a big difference between the government ' s position and the position of the Reform Party . 
this year close to 800 students received their rings . 
for example , young people from various states of the former Yugoslavia , from Morocco , from Tunisia and from Turkey were not required to have a visa to enter Germany when one of their parents stayed in Germany regularly . 
when we want answers , it is too specific . 
that proof now lies in the Library of Parliament , where there are tens of thousands of pages that support my statement . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough ( Halifax , NDP ) : 
i empathize with my colleague . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise in the House today to make amends to an oversight from many years gone by . 
* * * 
i ; 
i would have liked to meet with the municipalities in my riding - there are 12 of them - to really find out what points bother them . 
it is clear to Canadians that this system is not working well at all . 
i will not name him because he is a privatized crown corporation employee . 
in its findings , the tribunal placed clear limitations on the interpretations of Chapter 11 investment obligations which were raised in the case . 
the statistics show an increase in the crime rate the further west one goes . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 21 , be amended by deleting lines 37 and 38 on page 7 and lines 1 to 5 on page 8 . 
i urge you to support M 123 . 
in 1922 , still not having obtained the right to vote , Marie G é rin - Lajoie went to Quebec City with a group of women in order to lobby the premier . 
the state needs only prove that crimes were committed . 
the government of the day , and the one that followed it - the current government - told us over and over again how important it was to have two national air carriers . 
division No. 198 
the question is on the amendment to the amendment . 
we must continue to work diligently to advance the health and well - being of Canadians , particularly our children and youth , to preserve and restore the health of our natural heritage , to build stronger communities , to foster a sustainable and viable economy , to continue as prudent fiscal managers of the nation ' s financial assets and to advance our outward looking vision as a country by continuing our contributions to world security . 
i know we want to keep the debate in line and civilized . 
hon. Maria Minna 
the Honourable Gilbert Parent , Speaker of the House of Commons , then addressed the Honourable the Deputy Governor General as follows : 
the Government will : 
it is a challenge for the government whip , because it is important to have a quorum for Royal Assent . 
aboriginal AFFAIRS 
these matters were brought home to us during our study on post - secondary education in 1997 . 
perception is everything . 
Mr. Mac Harb 
his struggle , it has been noted , was the concern for the proper source of authority in religious belief under a totalitarian government determined to mould the beliefs of its citizens and extract public affirmations of loyalty . 
this is all Chinese to me . 
Mr. Speaker , I am surprised that , after the same question has already been answered ten times , it is still being asked . 
i am not opposed to people getting work if it is appropriate to them . 
that means that one in every one hundred children are born with these sometimes life - threatening defects making it the number one birth defect in Canada . 
it is falling apart because the government is unwise with where it spends taxpayers ' money . 
government ORDERS 
it is very often easier to obtain international consensus on a criminal reform project than to obtain federal and provincial consensus . 
that is really nice but it is not a luxury we can afford today , not when Canadians are staggering under that level of taxation . 
the sitting of December 7 has not ended yet and it may not for a while . 
HANNUKAH 
last Thursday , in a riding next to mine , in the town of Valleyfield , the Association des groupes d ' intervention en d é fense des droits en sant é mentale du Qu é bec was holding a conference on isolation and restraint , on surviving and eliminating them . 
however , we hope that the Canadian government will be able to reinvest in Quebec and elsewhere in Canada the billions of dollars it has cut since the Liberals came to power in 1993 . 
the supreme court has willy - nilly determined that Canada ' s fishery should be regulated along blood lines . 
the bill was defeated in the House by a margin of 31 votes . 
motion No. 74 
this is a most frustrating situation considering the fact that we are still waiting for the water export policy as well as for the comprehensive water policy as recommended by the Pearse report 15 years ago . 
members 
we know where it is . 
Mr. Speaker , as the hon. member knows , since that letter was written , there has been an agreement concluded with the Halifax International Airport Authority and it was to its satisfaction . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
more specifically , areas being considered include the creation of further specific offences that may be committed against children , sentencing to protect children from those who might reoffend , and facilitating of children ' s testimony . 
when did you first read the report ? 
the Speaker : 
right now we see situations all over the world where the European Union , the OSCE , the OEDC and the UN are sitting on their hands while people are being slaughtered . 
if the federal government has assets or property it is not using and is renting out right now , it should get rid of it . 
senator Lewis , as all honourable senators in this chamber would know , is a very modest person . 
second Reading 
the bill is quite broad . 
the minister still has an opportunity to reach a settlement with native and non - native fishers , but to do so he must show leadership . 
last month the Chinese government invited a small delegation of three Liberal MPs to go there . 
if the court insisted on the need for a clear majority by using the expression 13 times , it is because a simple majority of 50 % plus one is not enough to break up a country . 
the Russian army ' s behaviour during the Chechnya war has been appalling . 
( division 28 ) 
bill to Amend - Second Reading - Debate Continued 
* * * 
members 
agreed . 
what is the answer from the government side ? 
the agreement before us describes a tract of land and , under the agreement , it is to be owned in fee simple by the Nisga ' a government . 
this government has not thought out an agricultural policy . 
division No. 190 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CANADA 
by ignoring that , a great deal of morbidity was caused among the poor and the middle class of the population who do not have the money for proper dental care . 
just like everyone else , they want to be accepted for who they are and for the people they are , not for the country of their origin or their skin colour . 
that the Senate as the House of Her Majesty ' s Royal Assent affirm its ancient constitutional right as the House of the Parliament , the House for the proceedings of the three estates of Parliament acting together as the One Parliament of Canada ; 
CANADIAN FORCES 
i think it could be taken back to the drawing board , keeping in mind that there is a significant role in tourism for the federal government , but not under this plan . 
nays 
i hope they will continue to enjoy Hogans Pond and all the other delights of Newfoundland and Labrador for many years to come . 
this lady , who was so full of life , left us at the age of 45 , as the result of lung cancer . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough 
hon. Arthur C . Eggleton 
i am asking the parliamentary secretary and the Liberal government to reconsider because one of the five fundamental cornerstones is at risk . 
in his speech in reply to the Speech from the Throne he gave the government both the history and economic lessons as to who created Canada ' s financial crisis - the Trudeau Liberals - and who put in place a basis to resolve it - the Mulroney Conservatives . 
there is an old maritime expression that the fish stinks from the head . 
i think they would be quite surprised indeed to learn that the Reform Party somehow was their spokesperson . 
if that is the case , our positions are moving closer together , rising above the vehemence of the Bloc Quebecois . 
did we use that quiet diplomacy with the actions of the Chinese companies and the Malaysian companies ? 
the two lots owned by the town of Mirabel to be exchanged for lot 15 - 1815 were appraised at $ 67,110 and $ 156,509 by the town of Mirabel . 
in my early childhood , while we were not rich , we were not lacking for affection . 
i would ask the hon. Prime Minister if he would show me an opposition riding in which business cronies and criminals got millions of dollars , just as they did in the Prime Minister ' s riding when he interfered with the process . 
senator Nolin has asked for a study that will last at least three years , without having a general work plan or a budget . 
to the Standing Committee on Finance 
the Speaker : 
we asked a question . 
democracy is expressed in different ways . 
my colleague from Mercier initially led the charge on behalf of the Bloc Quebecois . 
No. 
let us look at a specific example for our viewers , who are wondering what it all boils down to . 
historically the minister is very conservative in his estimates . 
one relies on one ' s Senate colleagues to read Hansard . 
this is not a diversionary tactic for my constituents . 
i would invite everyone to compare the NDP platform with what we have done here in Ottawa on behalf of farmers . 
madam Speaker , it strikes me has a bit odd that a bill dealing with the protection of personal information has already been put under gag order , as we are just beginning . 
he first said that the Federation of Canadian Municipalities was given a full briefing . 
the Minister of Finance has told Canadians of the tremendous surplus of close to $ 100 billion over five years . 
some hon. members : 
the supreme court identified two key conditions for a referendum to trigger secession negotiations : a clear question and a clear majority . 
the principal became outraged . 
the debate is on the amendment to the amendment . 
yeas 
members 
in the case of the institutes of health research , however , the government has just created additional structures that will reflect its health research priorities . 
how would he have voted had this been an issue before parliament ? 
Mr. Speaker , the Indian affairs minister has publicly stated that accountability is the top priority for his portfolio . 
it is the taxes that have been wrung out of individuals , to the tune of $ 6 billion from people making $ 20,000 a year or less , that have balanced the budget and reduced the deficit , not the Liberal government . 
senator Lewis has represented the best of the Senate in his quiet dignity , profound competence and hard work . 
honourable senators , I thank the minister for his reply . 
four out of four . 
Mr. Daniel Turp ( Beauharnois - Salaberry , BQ ) : 
honourable senators , I wish to advise you of my grave concerns about Bill C - 4 which implements Canada ' s ratification of the international agreement creating the Civil International Space Station . 
the reply was not clear so the judge said " Speak up '' . 
hon. Marie - P . 
on the day that last week ' s Throne Speech was delivered , the highway most travelled in one Newfoundland outport was the well - beaten path into gardens at the back of the community , gardens where men and women grow basic root crops in a way not much different from that of their ancestors in the early 19 th century , often working the very same patch of ground . 
women who have breast cancer should make sure their daughters are checked also . 
as early as Monday afternoon we are meeting with an agenda . 
No. 
he did not think he would have enough time to express the views of his constituents . 
the ability for a people to set their own ways and determine their lives has made a big difference for everybody in the Yukon . 
i cannot see where there will be any independence . 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has indicated that the aid budget will be increased . 
she was not given any chance even though the mistake was made in good faith and her hourly wage was indeed , say , $ 15 , as it is generally the case for nurses . 
madam Speaker , the only people who do not respect the intelligence and the rights of Quebecers are those who belong to the party sitting on the other side of the House and those who belong to the governing party in Quebec . 
having worked with a number of young offenders , it comes out that all these things put together creates a problem in society . 
these are all very important elements . 
if approval is given for the sale of a Canadian reactor to Turkey , it will be located in a safe location , a long way from any of the difficult locations where there have been earthquakes . 
i think the member has a big blind spot . 
captain Riordon ' s wife , Sue Riordon , endured the double misery of watching her husband die a slow and agonizing death and hearing the government deny that he was suffering from anything but stress . 
CANADIAN FORCES 
i am looking at changing the Canadian tax regime . 
i want to bring to your attention , Mr. Speaker , that in these statutes , believe it or not , we still refer to our children as illegitimate . 
for example , Canada Post employees who deliver the mail deliver pamphlets . 
that says much about the strength of their relationship . 
it is simply that when we give people independence , when we give people the right to make their own choices about their future , we also give them the right to make mistakes , and that is democracy . 
one of them , of course , was the hepatitis C issue , which the government completely mishandled . 
Mr. Speaker , I have a petition from about 200 Canadians from all parts of the country on the issue of child poverty and the resolution of the House in November 1989 . 
the task force proposed a major transformation in our approach to health research and recommended the creation of the CIHR . 
a department survey of 300 band councils found that the most common problem was lack of control and conflict of interest . 
the law should specifically state that Ms. Anderson had the right to know whether or not that person had a communicable disease . 
there is nothing either on structuring projects in support of a real shipbuilding policy for Canada . 
the principal objective of this regime is to establish rules on liability for pollution damage caused by tankers . 
reform of the Senate 
earlier today the hon. member for Athabasca raised a question of privilege in the House . 
fisheries 
do I wish that we had more funding and more research for diabetes so that my friend and millions of others like him could have their symptoms relieved and we could continue searching for a cure and for a way of preventing the disease ? 
thus , justice would truly serve the people , and not a government which wants to buy votes at the expense of public safety in Quebec and Canada . 
i differ with Mr. Lawson in this regard . 
tobacco 
again , the minister mentioned that this morning . 
members 
the signing was held up so all the guests could be present . 
it was not painless . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl 
thanks so much for all the memories , Jean - Louis Millette . 
breakfast with Dr. Lee was a fascinating affair ; I was delighted to hear about the work he is now doing in Canada . 
vandalism is another issue that I hear about constantly wherever I travel . 
some hon. members : 
bill C - 20 
the Speaker : 
as a police officer I stuck my neck out way beyond probably where it should have been to do the very same thing that the member for Wild Rose spoke of because all of a sudden the charter , a wonderful charter , protects those who are being abusers . 
to begin with , the term " money bill " is not particularly helpful in the constitutional parliamentary life of Canada . 
we know that we have among us a truly respected Canadian in Senator John B . Stewart , who can legitimately join the pantheon of such senatorial giants as the Honourables Eugene Forsey , Raoul Dandurand , Muriel McQueen Fergusson , Cairine Wilson , Chubby Power , Duff Roblin and Arthur Meighen . 
members 
extended parental leave options could help to achieve these objectives . 
i know it must be difficult after lunch to have so many members in the Chamber trying to stay awake to listen to my presentation . 
there are some very serious implications . 
one can only hope that this measure would dramatically reduce the number of polls that are perhaps based on inaccurate or inadequate data . 
Mr. Speaker , the minister can explain it however she wants but the reality is that the review , the audit , said that things were not being done properly . 
the problem that confronts the government leadership in this house is that the Senate might very well be put in an impossible position or situation - on the one hand , an early deadline , and , on the other hand , an insistence that three particular officials be heard . 
the RCMP reports that there are biker gang activities and criminal enterprises in several parts of this country . 
Mr. Beno î t Sauvageau : 
these conversations and these meetings continue to go on . 
like the Pacific scandal , it too involved political contributions . 
all those opposed will please say nay . 
the question needs to be asked . 
some hon. members : 
on November 9 , 1998 , members of the Nisga ' a Nation ratified the final agreement through a ratification vote and on April 22 , 1999 , British Columbia passed the legislation it introduced to ratify the agreement . 
" ( 2 ) Clerical errors that occur in the framing or copying of any instrument drawn by an officer or an employee of the Nisga ' a government shall not be construed as invalidating that instrument , but when discovered they may be corrected under the authority of the Nisga ' a government . " 
it seems fairly easy to unanimously oppose something , someone or some bill . 
that Bill C - 6 be amended by deleting Clause 38 . 
national DEFENCE 
all honourable senators are as aware as I am of events in the House of Commons . 
" 27 . 
i have had the opportunity to speak about democracy in many past speeches both here in the House of Commons as well as throughout my riding of Nanaimo - Cowichan . 
Mr. Pierre Brien 
in the meantime my colleagues formed a committee and went to visit some people in the Vancouver area , including my colleague from Okanagan - Shuswap who was on the committee . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
honourable senators , certainly we will reflect on that suggestion . 
we know that the Prime Minister has always been prepared to manipulate the process , to use a provocative , powerful approach when he has a majority government to beat other provinces over the head . 
we are also examining the question of hours at this time . 
i declare Motion No. 150 lost . 
the throne speech made no mention of that issue whatsoever and yet it is an issue that has been brought forward on many occasions and presented to the federal government as a very pressing concern for those living in coastal areas . 
the Estimates , 1999 - 2000 
the government wants to change the rule to allow a group to gain control of the only remaining carrier . 
via Rail sold a part of its company to the private sector and then years later proceeded to try to compete with it . 
honourable senators , I will attempt to confirm for the honourable senator whether there is any present intention to introduce legislation . 
it goes into the whole idea of tax sharing and tax agreements . 
in so moving , I wish to quote the Right Honourable Pierre Elliott Trudeau , who said at the ceremony to proclaim the Constitution on April 17 , 1982 : 
members 
when voting took place on Motion No. 356 , I believe it was , and the Table is trying to confirm it for me , the Speaker did not acknowledge voters subsequent to my colleague who did not initially stand . 
that bold venture is the creation of the 21 st century chairs for research excellence . 
Mr. Peter MacKay ( Pictou - Antigonish - Guysborough , PC ) : 
this bill was Bill C - 54 in the first session of the present Parliament . 
it being almost 2 p.m. , the House will now proceed to statements by members . 
correctional SERVICES CANADA 
if I am correct , the wording of the Nisga ' a bill is very close to the Charlottetown Accord . 
agreed . 
if the couple separates , there is a mechanism and a process by which the individuals can continue to support each other , whether financially or through the division of property . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 38 , which was negatived on the following division ) : 
i am going to give a response which might surprise the hon. member , but my answer is indicative of a healthy democracy and the ability of members in the House to speak their minds and speak on behalf of their constituents and the people of Canada . 
on conflict of interest , there is no provision in this bill to ensure that people who are appointed to the board have no pecuniary or proprietary interests in the pharmaceutical industry or the medical devices industry . 
Mr. Keith Martin 
for the Minister of Justice to infer otherwise is ridiculous and certainly not worthy of further comment by this member . 
i point out to the speaker that the supreme court in this country comes under the Supreme Court of Canada Act . The supreme court comes under this parliament . 
would anyone describe the system as fair ? 
points OF ORDER 
unparliamentary words may be brought to the attention of the House either by the Speaker or by any Member . 
in terms of the Senator Di Nino ' s concern as to which committee this should be referred , I have asked for some information on the practice . 
poverty 
in fact it travelled to different parts of the country to seek the views of farmers and of people involved in the cultural industries . 
Mr. Speaker , it is a pleasure to talk to the bill about a code of conduct and whether an official code of conduct is a good idea here in the House of Commons and for parliamentarians generally . 
senator Andreychuk : 
it is a decision that is made by Correctional Services Canada with public safety as the number one issue . 
unfortunately , I have seen the devastation caused by unemployment . 
a fisheries and oceans memo says that the moneys to pay for these parties are hidden in the ship ' s budget . 
interparliamentary DELEGATIONS 
hon. Jane Stewart 
with this agreement and with the policy coming from the government we have seen a tremendous amount of intellectual dishonesty . 
combined , these three countries control over 75 % of the world market . 
this is essential for any society with a minimum of self - respect and sense of morality towards its members and itself . 
members 
i am grateful for the generous help and support he has extended to me over the past several weeks since my appointment , in the course of a very steep learning curve . 
an elections act should not favour any candidate . 
" ( 3 ) Any agreement to which Her Majesty becomes a partner pursuant to section 13 shall be deemed to be in the interest of the public . " 
fine . 
* * * 
Mr. Speaker , I have here a document that I wish to table with the unanimous consent of the House . 
over 90 % were babies born to HIV positive women . 
the Reform Party is not implementing it but it is the Liberal Party across the way . 
the riding of Portneuf is as nice a riding as any . 
this government in its Speech from the Throne talked about how it is helping the children of this country . 
Mr. Speaker , the supreme court has clarified the Marshall ruling and told the minister of fisheries for the second time that he can both make and enforce regulations . 
members 
Mr. Myron Thompson ( Wild Rose , Ref. ) : 
in the case of primary designated offences , samples must be taken when the person is found guilty , except under exceptional circumstances . 
aboriginal AFFAIRS 
there must be a better way to set up this organization rather than having one man dictate who the members will be . 
i ask , in accordance with the rules , for unanimous consent to table this very interesting document . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe : 
that was the intention of the government . 
they are asking for the rejection of the Nisga ' a treaty that will serve to entrench inequality and may divide Canadians forever . 
members 
members 
we are working with the provincial governments to see what can be improved in the proposition . 
* * * 
this exemption would not eliminate any of the taxes applicable to ships and their owners . 
an immediate and suitable replacement must be found for the old and unreliable Sea King maritime patrol helicopter . 
would the member agree with me that it would be good if we just put the bill aside for a while and had a committee tour the country to talk about the dependency model ? 
this is a national issue of deep concern to the government as well as the entire Senate . 
nays 
it is my understanding that the Federation of Canadian Municipalities has not had one speck of input into what is going to happen to their jurisdictions as a result of the bill . 
agreed . 
* * * 
it reported that deprivation during early childhood can impair brain development and permanently hinder the development of cognition and speech . 
all right , we are even . 
i wish I was in a position today to make some guarantees about the future of the airline industry in Canada . 
Mr. Newark and Ms. Rosenfeldt are out there trying to ensure that victims rights are an integral element in the court system of Ontario . 
John Locke believed that the right to self - ownership is a foundation of the right to material property . 
hon. John Manley : 
i am sorry , the hon. member ' s time has expired . 
to accuse the government of making that decision is just - 
there is an obvious attempt to deflect attention away from that , to somehow create an illusion that another issue will come on the agenda and perhaps bury the issue of the mismanagement that has taken place in Human Resources Development Canada , mismanagement that is perhaps systemic in many government departments . 
Canadians by birth and Canadians by choice all did their part to earn our place on the world stage back then . 
this was a homosexual union , a couple who had been living together for more than 40 years . 
you cannot artificially , by a band - aid approach , come up with these programs and suggest you are creating jobs . 
these are important victories with human faces . 
nays 
depot , Regina , Saskatchewan - 1 
i declare Motion No. 128 lost . 
it generally works pretty well . 
canada ' s participation in international agreements must be a democratic , transparent and accountable process where all Canadians have meaningful input . 
the minister and the House know that we support the bill at second reading in principle , but it is our obligation as parliamentarians to make sure we have the best possible bill for the future of the country . 
the government is fully aware that this is a very serious matter . 
Mr. Speaker , first of all , no lives were at risk . 
bill C - 2 . 
members 
yeas 
yeas 
senator Andreychuk : 
the Patriotes were crushed , as we know , but their legacy is still alive . 
Mr. Steve Mahoney : 
honourable Senator Kirby ) 
on the other hand , Uzbekistan has signed international covenants where their officials indicate that they will respect human rights . 
the bill before us does not mention this aspect . 
nays 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
honourable senators , allow me to give you a few examples . 
in this system the federal government provides money to families with children for income whether they are on income support or in low wage positions . 
( division 442 ) 
members 
division on Motion No. 139 deferred 
division No. 89 
that is exactly what Alf Gleave gave to Canada , to the House and to the New Democratic Party . 
when TJF was brought in by the government was there not a plan in place to monitor the moneys that were handed out throughout the country ? 
i seek clarification on a statement that Senator Carstairs made , which I feel is extremely relevant to the debate . 
can the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs confirm that the Liberal majority of the legislative committee will accept that representative groups from Quebec may be heard by the committee ? 
the seriousness of the situation is perhaps outlined best by a constituent of mine , Barry Murray , who is a fisherman in the Malpeque Bay area . 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker Pro tempore 
canada - Japan Inter - Parliamentary Group 
the Prime Minister has recognized that there were quite a few jacks in this government and that he needed some queens . 
that Bill C - 13 , in Clause 5 , be amended 
in curling , she was a three - time women ' s world champion , Olympic gold medal winner , a Hall of Famer , and truly a great Saskatchewanian and a Canadian legend . 
we negotiate a deal and then we ask people if they support it . 
they ask questions designed to determine whether the needs of our veterans are being met . 
in my opinion the nays have it . 
they can use that money for issues and needs of their children . 
honourable senators , rarely during the past 133 - year history of the Senate of Canada have we been called upon to examine a more dangerous legislative proposal than Bill C - 20 . The danger of this bill is twofold . 
third reading 
yeas 
honourable senators , the 1993 Vienna Declaration on Human Rights states that : 
i was one of those who grew up supporting the Tories at the ballot box . 
the answer is no because accountability does not come from dictators . 
yeas 
that party and that member do not seem to want to take that into consideration . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
is the Prime Minister suggesting that his government is so mismanaged that a billion dollar bungle is a commonplace occurrence ? 
it is going to put further pressure on these agencies , which are currently underfunded . 
in fact , it would be interesting to see how often all party leaders volunteered to campaign in high schools if these students could actually vote . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 386 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
hon. Don Boudria 
self - government is okay as long as they can dictate what that means to a people . 
in Canada 25 % of our children enter adult life with significant emotional , behavioural , academic or social problems . 
seasonal work is a subject of special concern because those engaged in seasonal work have fewer alternatives than other workers and are therefore more dependent on EI . 
i thank the Honourable Senator Kinsella for mentioning this matter . 
the motion by my colleague from the Progressive Conservative Party contained a lot of elements , including the lack of vision . 
members 
so every treaty for implementation requires federal legislation and , if it touches provincial powers , provincial legislation . 
they ' ve come up with a scheme 
at this rate the initial hearings of the 600 Chinese migrants will not be completed until 2034 . 
there have to be stronger families , stronger opportunities for parental care and supervision , and strong leadership within families . 
introduction and first reading 
since 1983 , Canada has had federal data - protection legislation in the Privacy Act . Privacy Commissioner Bruce Philips addresses these issues , along with matters under the Access to Information Act . 
pay EQUITY 
it amuses and puzzles me that the government is prepared to ignore court decisions in B.C. that allow child pornography to run rampant . 
madam Speaker , the second petition is also from concerned Canadians in my riding of Lethbridge . 
as the member knows , we have been working together on this side of the House to get those people who live in urban areas involved in the issue of agriculture and agri - food . 
on Friday , the government orders that will be called will be Bill C - 4 , the space station bill , and Bill C - 5 , the tourism bill . 
members 
it has permitted the " build - down " of missiles that we have witnessed in recent years . 
for example , section 10 requires the court to assess the possibility of a reconciliation of the spouses that come before it . 
he was my hero . 
it means a settlement of the land rights of the Nisga ' a and a lessening of the economic uncertainty over the ownership and the use of the lands and resources in the region . 
it is up to the government especially to ensure that this House assumes its responsibilities , something it does not seem to want to do at the moment . 
we are getting caught up although in this case we are not terribly behind in terms of the pack . 
i have talked about this before in the House . 
i told him that significant investments have been made in the Canadian automobile industry in the past five or six years . 
instead of taking up a floor in the building that houses Industry Canada , it will need some prominent downtown real estate in Toronto at the top dollar the market demands . 
the hon. solicitor general has the floor . 
the real question is whether or not the facts that I have placed before the Senate are correct , regardless of where they originated . 
bill C - 20 
Mr. Speaker , the national assembly may ask any question it wants . 
if we go over the history of Canada , the involvement of the Canadian government in the economic life of the country and the stories that are told about government crown corporations , surely we will learn some lessons from the past . 
honourable senators , we simply cannot afford to pass Bill C - 6 as it is currently drafted . 
madam Speaker , I am pleased to enter the debate on Bill C - 13 , an act to establish the Canadian institutes of health research and to repeal the Medical Research Council Act . 
of course , there will eventually be some degree of harmonization , but in the meantime , it may very well be that consumers will not enjoy the same protection as they did before . 
when garbage is taken away from our front steps and put in a landfill , it is the responsibility of the municipality . 
for instance , buying back licences , something that is often done , so that more space can be made for the aboriginal fishers who have had the supreme court rule in their favour . 
the impact of the Marshall case likely will not be confined to fish and it likely will not be confined to Atlantic Canada . 
the Speaker : 
Mr. Ken Epp ( Elk Island , Ref. ) : 
if it will affect virtually everyone and our tax dollars are involved , our operations are involved and the local government is involved as well , why would he refuse a referendum ? 
is that why the Prime Minister is so desperate to keep his first mate , the minister responsible for Human Resources Development , afloat ? 
on Friday , we will deal with report stage and third reading of Bill C - 4 , the space station legislation , as agreed earlier today with the other House leaders . 
hon. John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) : 
miss Deborah Grey ( Edmonton North , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Richard Marceau 
named Among the Top Twenty Canadian Heroesof the Twentieth Century 
Mr. Speaker , it is indeed a distinct honour to speak on the eve of a monumental milestone in the apocalyptic annals of Canadian history . 
a skilled workforce and a capacity to innovate continuously are crucial building blocks of a successful 21 st century economy . 
honourable senators , fortunately this particular event seems to be an isolated incident . 
and I shall applaud ; I shall congratulate you : 
honourable senators , I am absolutely in order , and if anyone has an objection to what I am saying , they must rise on their feet and raise a point of order on what I am saying . 
i leave that with the government as a suggestion . 
the next question is on Motion No. 34 . 
does the finance minister plan to establish any limits , or does he intend to sign a blank cheque on behalf of Canadian taxpayers ? 
that Bill C - 9 be amended by adding after line 29 on page 7 the following new clause : 
that is what Reformers do not believe in because not one of them voted for equality even in the Canadian Human Rights Act . 
we , ... humbly approach Your Majesty , praying that Your Majesty may be graciously pleased : - 
partisan political decision making is the nicest way to say it . 
the consultant concluded that there had been some start up problems with the firearms registry system , and then concluded that these problems were not unusual for a program of this size , complexity or visibility . 
* * * 
i would like to think that we are good at it and we are getting better . 
Beauchesne ' s 6 th edition , citation 98 , states in part : 
child POVERTY 
* * * 
the Deputy Speaker : 
they were punished by first being deprived of their salary and then the provincial government forced them to leave Guigues school . 
the provincial government is now looking at it as a cash cow . 
they are the most concerned . 
this article was written in 1987 by a reporter saying that the way public finances were managed had created a $ 1 billion black hole . 
that the Senate affirm that the parliamentary procedure for a private member of Parliament to obtain the Royal Consent is a motion for an Address to Her Majesty requesting the same , as distinct from the other forms for obtaining Royal Consent which may be available to the Prime Minister or ministers acting under political ministerial responsibility ; and 
some hon. members : 
paired 
marriage 
members 
i ask the hon. minister to withdraw " sleazy '' . 
there is the issue of jurisdiction . 
Mr. Howard Hilstrom 
if it is anything at all it is an admission there is no economy to stimulate or to build on . 
they only use the press releases by the government for their research and think they have done a job for the Canadian public . 
i want to start off by talking about the provincial co - operation that needs to go on whenever we put any kind of legislation forward . 
is it your pleasure , honourable senators , to adopt the motion ? 
Mr. Speaker , it has often been said that small business has been the engine that drives our economy . 
this is different from the amending process under the Constitution , which requires a resolution of both Houses , although the resolution in this house , if not given , is effectively suspensive for 180 days . 
i must put the question first and then see if more than five members rise . 
the only thing in the country that is dropping faster than personal income taxes is Reform ' s share of the popular vote . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
members 
i do not know the total number of jobs created , but I would be more than happy to obtain that information because I know the honourable senator will want me to share that information with all those in this place . 
we would like to comment on that process . 
that Bill C - 8 be amended by deleting Clause 14 . 
what kind of government do we have ? 
we must remember that the NPT , which was indefinitely extended in 1995 , legally obliges its signatories to negotiate the elimination of nuclear weapons , not merely their reduction . 
in fact , Canada has often been asked to assist third world countries to supervise and report on elections to ensure that the presiding government operates in a free , fair and open manner . 
at that ceremony in New Aiyansh , Chief Joseph Gosnell said : 
order , please . 
they were running around literally like chickens with their heads cut off . 
a twit is someone who does not understand anything , who should go back to school , who needs to learn . 
it is highly unlikely that person would be a friend of the Quebec sovereignist regime . 
hon. Ralph E . Goodale ( Minister of Natural Resources and Minister responsible for the Canadian Wheat Board , Lib . ) : 
the IMF , the UN and the World Bank need to put conditions on the actions of countries behaving in ways that are completely destructive to the internal and external security of their regions . 
Mr. Speaker , 93 % of the inhabitants of Mont - Tremblant voted in a referendum and the minister said that the government rejected all the democratic votes cast . 
in my opinion it has not been the development of our natural resources offshore that has endangered the marine habitat in Canada ' s oceans . 
some hon. members : 
if we help just one family it would be worth it , but I think this awareness will help our whole country . 
honourable senators , it gives me great pleasure today to lead off second reading on Bill C - 9 for my party . 
today we have that same excellence taking place in the country . 
Mr. Speaker , I will be sharing my time with the hon. member for Kootenay - Columbia . 
all of us at some point in our electoral past , in volunteering in campaigns and our involvement in the election process , have delivered flyers door to door . 
i would like to ask him whether it is not a bit illogical to allow this offer , this debate among shareholders , to take place under a certain number of rules , while telling them that they could be changed . 
Mr. Speaker , if we had a blank cheque sitting here today , or if we had direct access to the treasury , what are some of the constructive thoughts and initiatives the member thinks the House should explore on behalf of her constituents ? 
someone should remind him though that , unlike his shopping list , the surplus is projected and expected , not confirmed , meaning that tax relief is doomed again . 
i take it as a point of immense national pride that , collectively , we have accepted that fundamental principle . 
but as I said earlier , chances are that the minister will choose not to be so accountable to parliament and hide behind the fact that we are dealing with a crown corporation . 
members 
No. 
if we ever get to a constitutional amendment on the secession of a province , the regularly established constitutional and legislative process will come into play at that point and our role will be exactly as it has been . 
first Report of Committee Tabled 
members 
Mr. John Harvard ( Charleswood St. James - Assiniboia , Lib . ) : 
air TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY 
we also point out that in Canada today the finance minister cuts a cheque for $ 40 billion a year to pay the interest on the debt . 
Mr. Peter MacKay 
all they are asking for is a fair break in terms of investments into that part of country through their university college and other agencies . 
hon. Lyle Vanclief ( Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food , Lib . ) : 
we have put in over $ 7 billion , at least $ 5 billion of which was used up by the industry itself , never reaching the grassroots people . 
i declare Motion No. 271 lost . 
at Beny - Sur - Mer in France , Sai Wau Bay in Hong Kong , Bergen - op - Zoom in the Netherlands and the Moro River in Italy , Canadian heroes of World War II are buried . 
division on amendment deferred 
( a ) by replacing line 8 on page 108 with the following : 
i not suggesting it was a failure , but it was a very slow process . 
this translates into more crime prevented or solved , or a better co - ordination of action against organized crime . 
it is not the chairman who delegates , but the committee . 
the Bloc Quebecois ought to be able to understand very clearly why the contents of individual returns ought not to be disclosed . 
concurrence IN VOTE 25 A - PRIVY COUNCIL 
allotted DAY - FOOD INDUSTRIES 
this research led to the discovery of 3 TC which is one of the drugs which has turned HIV into a more manageable disease . 
except us . 
these programs and the adjustments we have made to them are closing the gap between farmers ' current incomes and their five year averages . 
they are incensed that the justice minister is not doing anything about it . 
the next question is on Motion No. 414 . 
division No. 742 
he also may decide whether he should pay supplementary payments , such as interest payments , on those particular late payments of taxes . 
bill C - 293 . 
hon. Mira Spivak : 
how does the Senate go about the business of referring to a committee something of which it has never had cognizance ? 
we have provincial governments that have debts as well . 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government , for Senator Kirby , pursuant to notice of November 18 , 1999 , moved : 
the cost of designing , developing , operating and launching the MSS into orbit is approximately $ 1.4 billion over 20 years . 
paired 
government RESPONSE TO PETITIONS 
an hon. member : 
it comes as no great surprise that the government chose not to consult but simply to enforce its will on Canadians . 
i turn to a clause in the bill that to some extent sheds some light on the mindset of the government when we address these issues . 
i said " Well , you have to understand the Canadian way . 
often , even after they are accepted , it takes years and years to reunify the family . 
that brings with it a responsibility for community futures which plays a role in providing access to capital and facilitating business development for rural Canadians . 
child POVERTY 
i remind the House that in two previous court cases the elections act was overturned in Alberta regarding the amount of available third party spending . 
members 
this is actually Bill C - 6 , which was designated as C - 54 at the time . 
we can ' t fight them , we have no money , we have nothing but I ' m really angry at government for not listening to the grassroots , when we are the most important people . 
motion No. 171 negatived 
( 1 ) Subject to subsection ( 1.1 ) , 
Mrs. Francine Lalonde 
i had the honour of serving on the Special Joint Committee on Child Custody and Access which was struck in October of 1997 . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough 
with the WTO negotiations beginning in November in Seattle , it is important for Canada as a free trading nation to set realistic goals as we go to the negotiating table . 
he also is keeping silent . 
new IDENTITIES PROGRAM 
senator Di Nino : 
if he wants the Canadian parliament to create another committee , he should discuss it with his House leader . 
this auditor general is no different . 
in all these instances , the delegation defended Canadian interests . 
in this period of austerity , we have to stick together . 
in this bill we have to ensure that there is transparency in all transactions which Canadians are involved in when it comes to electing members of parliament . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
i appreciate that the Minister of Justice has recognized the value of this legislation as it is incorporated in its entirety in government Bill C - 3 . 
at the same time , Quebec alone received $ 1.4 billion in equalization payments . 
i understand that only 4 % to 5 % of the total funds will go toward administration . 
a negative vote on Motion No. 5 requires the question to be put on Motions Nos. 6 to 12 . 
the code applies to military personnel , the reserves and some civilians who accompany military personnel abroad . 
this politician , professor and author has brought honour to this institution . 
Ms. Sophia Leung ( Vancouver Kingsway , Lib . ) : 
the reality is that we must assume our responsibilities and move forward . 
a negative vote on Motion No. 279 requires the question to be put on Motions Nos. 280 and 282 . 
she had the feeling that she would be coerced or forced into an abortion procedure or be denied completion of her program . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
in particular , it would create an exemption to the general rule of non - disclosure of pardoned records for the purpose of screening sex offenders from positions of trust or authority in relation to children or other vulnerable persons . 
in the face of this growth , employment insurance premiums have been reduced significantly over the last number of years . 
we will build on our strengths . 
some hon. members : 
the chief electoral officer could also be dismissed for valid reasons , through a similar resolution . 
for this morning , we will therefore carry on in the same fashion . 
it is their belief that the disaster occurred because that respect was lost at some point . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 463 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
members 
black HISTORY MONTH 
( the House divided on Motion No. 4 , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
if a senator did have an interest in a financial institution , it would be publicly declared , since the intent was to make these letters available , as indeed they were , to members of the media who sought them from the Law Clerk . 
it is time that the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans immediately commit to maintaining this essential service . 
i was the owner of that intellectual property . 
agriculture 
Mr. John Duncan 
a candidate who comes from Saskatchewan , where there are 14 federal seats , is excluded from running for a party that is regional in nature . 
i would encourage him to come to the foreign affairs committee , which has discussed this issue in the past a number of times . 
his efforts in this area have earned him a number of awards and accolades , as was also noted , including the Alberta Human Rights Award . 
there have been a number of recent reports including that of the League for Human Rights of B ' Nai Brith and more recently by the city of Toronto police attesting to a disturbing rise in hate crimes against vulnerable minorities in the country . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 20 , be amended by deleting lines 38 to 43 on page 6 and lines 1 to 5 on page 7 . 
we are still waiting for a ruling on the issue from the supreme court . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Speaker , let me clarify again that the statistics that we have used , both for the identification of inclusion in the riding of Brant for transitional jobs fund , are acceptable . 
i am talking , of course , about genocide and other crimes against humanity that we should never forget , let alone pretend that they never happened . 
they already have a serious problem . 
by doing so they will honour the memory of 11 year old Sandrine Craig , whose death has inspired this national campaign . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough : 
not before the next election , anyway . 
federalism 
above all , the government is committed to ensuring that we continue to have one of the finest , safest airline industries in the world , which we do . 
shame ! 
modernization OF BENEFITS AND OBLIGATIONS ACT 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay ( Solicitor General of Canada , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Joe Jordan ( Leeds - Grenville , Lib . ) : 
presence IN GALLERY 
honourable senators , out of respect for our deceased colleague the Honourable Senator Balfour , I ask that you all rise and join me in a moment of silence . 
bill C - 1 . 
bill S - 13 attempts to cast the need to provide for a framework to deal with the matter of whistle - blowing within this new context of ethics and values as a strong foundation of our Canadian public service . 
members 
on this issue once again the Speech from the Throne reflects the priorities of my constituents . 
does the Prime Minister still persist today in claiming that the scandalous mismanagement at HRDC is limited to these 37 cases ? 
Mr. Joe McGuire : 
i will give the honourable leader one example and ask him to carry it to the cabinet . 
many existing statutes and regulations often specify that information must be given in writing or certain documents must be signed . 
in fact , when Bernie ran for the leadership of our party in Nova Scotia , one of my sons was his campaign manager . 
if honourable senators will refer again to Beauchesne ' s , they will find that the word " misleading " as mentioned in paragraph 489 has been ruled unparliamentary on many occasions under the following headings : attempted to misrepresent , deliberately misled , deliberately misleading , misled and misleading the public . 
in so doing , they have had the support of their partners and many of the men who sit here today as their colleagues in both houses . 
we will continue to look for continuing and further ways to assist those in rural Canada and to assist the agricultural industry . 
he talks about the secrecy of the process and how enthusiastic he was at the beginning by the promise of what would happen here . 
federal Funding Transfers to Provinces 
if they are approached with false representations , fake brands , fake images or other devious means , this is a reprehensible act . 
i cannot go through all of the petition , but the petitioners see that the tax burden on the average Canadian family has skyrocketed 30 % and that taxes have grown from $ 9.4 billion to $ 20.9 billion . 
in these and many other ways , the Nisga ' a negotiators have provided detailed information to every interested Nisga ' a person on this proposed treaty . 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased to table , in both official languages , a number of order in council appointments recently made by the government . 
the real concern is that there should be rules in place in the Municipal Grants Act to ensure that neither party can arbitrarily alter the terms and conditions of the relationship by simply backing out , as we saw in 1992 . 
another reason is that aboriginal shelter issues received government attention much later than the needs of other parts of Canadian society . 
i strongly voice my concern too . 
there are obvious legal problems . 
regional support was broken down as follows : in my province of Ontario , 66 % of Canadians were in support ; in B.C. support was at 68 % ; and in Atlantic Canada support was at a high of 75 % . 
for example , last year , the CBC received $ 844 million . 
these people should never be underestimated for the good work they do . 
millennium SCHOLARSHIPS 
members 
agriculture AND AGRI - FOOD 
on this level I must congratulate the minister for continuing his government ' s commitment to the agenda set by the former prime minister . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
that point has to be addressed by the House today because we were unsuccessful in committee in terms of trying to convince the government to put more weight on the whole issue of research based on economic , social , cultural and environmental determinants of health and well - being . 
the three year reference period is simply too short . 
this legislation does nothing to remedy that . 
it can and will be held politically and legally accountable for the decisions it makes . 
motion No. 411 
they said : " Mr. Mercier , Senator Stewart looks younger than you . " 
hon. Donald H . Oliver : 
we want to ensure that individuals inside and outside corporate Canada will be dealt with equitably and fairly under the law , but we want to ensure that there is that degree of accountability , that executives will not be able to hide behind the corporate veil and the job titles in the commission of their duties . 
the Van Egmonds had a dream of living in a wilderness setting and being able to help people through a practical , hands on approach . 
honourable senators , could we have order , please , so that we can hear the Honourable Senator LeBreton . 
what instructions does the honourable senator have to ensure that this does not happen again ? 
i quote the Prime Minister as reported in Hansard in 1991 : 
the reason my party has had to devote one of these opposition days to this topic is that the government has refused to hold its own debate . 
with the salmon stocks where they are , obviously 18 % of the salmon catch today is not significant . 
honourable senators , I do not disagree with Senator Lynch - Staunton that , if we do not have a good reason to sit , we should consider not sitting . 
i declare the motion carried . 
members 
Ms. Diane St - Jacques ( Shefford , PC ) : 
citizenship and Immigration , Votes 1 a and 10 a 
it seems to me that it is a classical non sequitur of logic for the bill to state , in the second preambular paragraph , that the matter of secession is of the utmost gravity and then to exclude one of the two Houses of Parliament from a determinative role . 
Mr. Reg Alcock ( Winnipeg South , Lib . ) : 
the question is what to do in the present circumstances . 
he also met with the Minister of Transport to discuss the airline takeover . 
that a Special Committee of the Senate be appointed to reassess Canada ' s anti - drug legislation and policies , to carry out a broad consultation of the Canadian public to determine the specific needs of various regions of the country , where social problems associated with the trafficking and use of illegal drugs are more in evidence , to develop proposals to disseminate information about Canada ' s anti - drug policy and , finally , to make recommendations for an anti - drug strategy developed by and for Canadians under which all levels of government to work closely together to reduce the harm associated with the use of illegal drugs ; 
therefore in my judgment and in my analysis there is a hidden agenda , namely to allow these same activist judges to eventually declare the current prohibition of marriages between same sex people to be unconstitutional . 
intellectual property rights and patent rights are being protected for Canadian companies and the Canadian government when doing research on the international space station . 
the Ontario government legislation which abolishes the bilingual statute of the new municipality of Ottawa ... 
i would request that all parties put partisan politics aside and , since this is Private Members ' Business , grant unanimous consent . 
Ms. Jean Augustine ( Etobicoke - Lakeshore , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I will not be able to address all those points in the time allotted , but I will point out to the member that the cuts to the province of Ontario and the CHST , which includes health , post - secondary and social services , were about $ 800 million . 
Mr. Myron Thompson : 
for parents who do not have adequate income and do not have economic opportunities , it is evermore difficult . 
they paid the political price then and , despite the little 1993 hiccup , they will pay the political price again . 
why set up a program that will not meet the needs of farmers out there ? 
in those notes it is stated quite clearly that there is an eight year time slot from the time of ordering the helicopters and the time that they will be delivered . 
reform said no . 
i would only hope that one day the government would wake up and decide to deal with something substantive , something life threatening , so that people like this gentleman and his wife , who is also a doctor , do not have to leave to go to a far away land because they cannot provide the care for patients that Canadians well deserve . 
a Reform member went to great lengths today to distance himself from some remarks he made with regard to a two tier health care system in Canada . 
we have not done that well , and there are other examples where government has been in business where perhaps it should not have been . 
Mr. Rick Borotsik : 
by flying a red ribbon we pay tribute to those who have lost their lives to drunk drivers , remind people to drive sober and show publicly that we will not drink and drive . 
my fear is that the Liberal definition of clarity will give separatists the winning condition which they have sought . 
this is more a point of information , but I had assumed , during the two days of debate on this issue , that the report would be presented here and that the Senate on its own would decide what to do with it . 
honourable senators , may I ask a question ? 
i can assure you that , for the moment , we are absolutely confident of arriving together with a strong voice in Seattle in order to protect and promote the interests of all Canadians . 
i sincerely hope that the government will at least open this up to proper debate and allow us to speak on this instead of keeping us to 10 minutes and shutting off debate with no questions and answers in the House . 
this project , a civil international space station , is extremely important , and the Bloc Quebecois obviously does not want to unduly hold up the legislative process , because the impact of this project in Quebec is quite significant . 
today ' s Order Paper is hardly pregnant with business . 
the hon. member for Beauharnois Salaberry . 
* * * 
honourable senators , I do have reservations . 
what happened in the 1970 s was that there was a determination made in 1974 and again in 1978 to expand the coal mines because it was necessary for the betterment of the country . 
an hon. member : 
referendums 
to be complex does not mean to be fragmented . 
i think people have heard of him . 
Mr. Peter Adams ( Peterborough , Lib . ) : 
the Budget - Allocation for East Coast - Input of Leader of Government 
Mr. Speaker , it is a pleasure to speak to Bill C - 214 , an act to provide for the participation of the House of Commons when international treaties are concluded . 
patronage appointment of key election officials is part of the problem . 
( official Version ) 
they have stated how bad and ineffective the Young Offenders Act is and that it lacks accountability . 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased to inform the House and all Canadians that October 25 to 30 has been designated National Sleep Awareness Week . 
canada has a long and honourable tradition of medical research . 
increased Trade and Investment 
Mr. Speaker , again the hon. member ought to check his facts . 
it is too easy to go around the world and claim what Canada is all about but then forget about what you said when you return home . 
canada - United States Inter - Parliamentary Group 
these are some of the other issues that we clearly must address . 
since he obviously must have a detailed list of these projects and payments , would the Leader of the Government table a detailed list in the Senate , broken down riding by riding , indicating those held by the government and those held by the opposition ? 
Mr. Speaker , in conclusion I move : 
introduction and first reading 
yeas 
i think we will find significant overlap . 
in that time , the official opposition was able to field just 16 speakers out of a caucus of 58 members . 
the song , dance and gymnastic festivals and other festivities will be followed with great interest by all Canadians . 
children 
without basic , crucial , productive and job creating investments , Montreal will never meet its economic recovery objectives . 
children lie on concrete slabs in the middle of winter . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 264 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
that category has increased , whereas other aid capacities have decreased . 
Mr. Speaker , I would first like to thank the member for Brampton Centre who has done an incredible job getting together 22 organizations from across the country to work on this very important issue . 
i was down to Seattle and during that time I ran into my grandson . 
let me point out that to date I alone , as the member of parliament for Okanagan - Coquihalla , have received literally thousands of names on petitions from people who are concerned about the agreement . 
members 
hon. Herb Gray 
Mr. Stan Dromisky ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Transport , Lib . ) : 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 27 , be amended by replacing line 6 on page 10 with the following : 
there are people like him all across this country . 
i think we are shortchanged . 
my dear colleague from Chicoutimi is right . 
the impact on the individual of a search and seizure of bank records is the same whether the search and seizure took place in Canada or in Switzerland . 
the Athens Convention was adopted by the IMO , with Canada ' s full approval , in December 1974 as a uniform convention , which was amended in 1990 by a protocol updating its limits of liability . 
the supreme court has scheduled a hearing on this matter for mid - January 2000 . 
i do not for a minute think that this will not occur again . 
in 1993 this country had a $ 42 billion deficit . 
a race based policy has been set up in this country . 
it has started attacking Serbs in the valley . 
what would become of Canada ' s unity if a sovereignist party in Quebec went back to what Ren é L é vesque was proposing in the early 1970 s , namely that the election of a clearly sovereignist PQ government would mean that a simple majority of members in the National Assembly could set in motion the province ' s separation from the rest of Canada ? 
the essential element of ministerial responsible government by the Queen in Parliament is the duty of Her Majesty ' s cabinet , under the confidence of Parliament , to find political solutions to human problems and conflicts in contrast to legal , judicial or military responses to those problems . 
they go hand in hand . 
hon. Sharon Carstairs : 
the said prop is invisible to Your Honour because it is behind the curtain , but it is visible to one of our cameras and I think it should be removed from behind the curtain . 
Mrs. Marlene Jennings : 
i take some issue with the handsome comments , however . 
out there , like in here , they have no defence . 
what is very clear is that medical research in the old biomedical model was not satisfying all our needs in understanding all the determinants of health . 
it should be incumbent upon every leader in the community , teacher , parent , church or whatever group , that once they have dealt with young people there should be no equivocation that a joyride in a stolen car is an acceptable the right of passage into adulthood . 
Mrs. Madeleine Dalphond - Guiral ( Laval Centre , BQ ) : 
in fact , I hope to have a discussion with him and with some of the representatives of that community myself over the next number of days . 
members 
hon. J . Michael Forrestall : 
the approach we are being asked to support now , if we believe members of the NDP , is rather schizophrenic . 
nays 
every one of the British MPs was elected by proportional representation for the first time in the history of Britain . 
it could be a boon to the agricultural community regarding production . 
furthermore , the level of democratic ethics in Quebec is far superior to the one seen on the federal scene and which sometimes take us back to the dark ages . 
there are 610 bands in Canada . 
of course , the measures we take vary according to the country concerned , its willingness to discuss human rights issues with Canada , the extent of our influence in the country or the region , the number and strength of NGOs working in the country to promote human rights , and a whole range of other factors . 
hon. Herb Gray ( Deputy Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
like Government departments , the Senate is allowed to carry forward up to 5 per cent of its unspent approved funds from previous years . 
Mrs. Monique Guay 
members 
Mr. Peter Mancini 
the series was organized by Debra Davis and held in Canada House , on Trafalgar Square , to celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the ruling by the Judicial Committee of the British Privy Council that women are persons in law . 
security and Intelligence 
Mr. Speaker , the finance minister tells us that he cares about child poverty , and I believe him . 
would it not be beneficial for western Canadian farmers to export their wheat outside of the Canadian wheat marketing board in addition to voluntarily marketing through the wheat board if they so wish ? 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
that bill had been rewritten by the committee that studied it before sending it back to the House . 
members 
madam Speaker , to phrase it another way , which may be parliamentary , there is not one single member of the official opposition here except the mover of the bill . 
is that the case ? 
why is it using , according to Stats Canada , 1997 stats in order to make decisions regarding AIDA ? 
i would not dare guess what format or what approach the Parti Qu é b é cois might adopt . 
agriculture 
that project failed , but we have to find a way to cut the Gordian knot if we do not want another referendum to be held in Quebec . 
there is even a provision on processing plants . 
hon. Sheila Copps ( Minister of Canadian Heritage , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I listened with great interest to what my colleague had to say . 
Mr. Speaker , Canadians are outraged by the government ' s unwillingness to uphold the law against child pornography . 
why is there no provision on conflict of interest in terms of appointments to the governing council ? 
if it lost the next time there was a referendum , would it say the same again ? 
the parliamentary cohesion that used to exist has disappeared completely . 
Mr. Deepak Obhrai ( Calgary East , Ref. ) : 
this intimation should be given before the committal of the Bill . 
because a special committee of the Senate would have the power to examine witnesses , send for papers and records , and hear briefs and evidence , the final report would be a reliable source of objective information . 
however , four years later , a public inquiry into the killings agreed with Major Buonamici , saying there was indeed a military cover - up of the details of what came to be known as the Somalia Affair . 
in the legislation ' s absence , there would be no limitation on the government ' s prerogative to undertake negotiations on the secession of a province other than the confidence of the House of Commons , but that existing limitation or constraint that can be exercised at any time by the House of Commons is a very important one . 
look at the dilemma it puts us in . 
when the last Poet Laureate died in Britain , numerous other poets let it be known that they did not want to be considered for the post at all . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
an all - party committee in Germany , including members of the Christian Democratic Union , is investigating allegations of illegal campaign contributions and kickbacks by a number of leading German politicians , including former chancellor Helmut Kohl , long - time head of the CDU . 
quite frankly everybody that has been speaking today has been saying that we want local solutions . 
people end up on the street for all kinds of reasons . 
there is more knowledge and awareness of this subject and many more judges are on top of the matter . 
first , the government will harness the energy and the knowledge of our youth , both rural and urban , to help connect rural and urban communities to the information highway . 
i belong to one of those families that Senator Di Nino is talking about . 
it brought out quotes from the former Minister of Justice in the same Liberal government to show that there had been a change in approach and that what one minister had said was plainly contradicted by his successor . 
organ DONATIONS 
referred to Committee 
proposal by Reform Party to Review Membership - Government Policy 
i know they will want to refrain from doing so in future on every side of the House . 
Mr. Preston Manning ( Leader of the Opposition , Ref. ) : 
we hear it used by both sides of the House , yet the government grants special status to the Nisga ' a under the Nisga ' a treaty . 
members 
members 
there is no measurement of benefits from projects . 
the federal bill will be completing the protection afforded consumers in Quebec by the legislation of that province . 
the transparency is still veiled ; I would even go so far as to say that the veils number at least seven . 
agreed . 
Mr. John Godfrey ( Don Valley West , Lib . ) : 
it is an article published in the daily newspaper La Presse on December 24 of last year entitled " Quebec ' s Response to Jean Chr é tien Rekindles Sovereignist Fervour '' . 
treasury BOARD 
i could speak about many other areas , but , in this case , we are talking about a statutory area . 
that was deliberate . 
we are determined to examine all options for a solution and we will search for new approaches , such as easing the cost of transportation and handling of grain . 
second Reading - Debate Continued 
senator Boudreau : 
it is interesting how some things never change in the country . 
if the vast majority of Quebecers support separation , if there is a broad consensus , then I would recognize it , but not at 50 % plus one . 
is that really your position ? 
i report to them , hear their feedback and offer any assistance I can so that they might understand the programs of government and what the priorities are at the federal level . 
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the chair of the committee , Senator Bacon , for the way in which she conducted both our public hearings and the sessions spent in drafting this report . 
for them , knowing that the offender will never walk the streets again as a free person will bring a sense of relief and an element of closure to a sad chapter in their lives . 
honourable senators , the Deputy Leader of the Government has tried to clarify the situation this afternoon , but Senator Corbin , by his intervention , has indicated that we have a problem now because that first committee will be required under our rules to submit its report as soon as it is ready . 
the first category is clarification of the purpose of the act . 
a significant number of agreements between France and Quebec have been signed under this framework . 
are the minister and the government aware that this incident could seriously damage the credibility of the Canadian secret service ? 
the question is on Motion No. 1 . 
this is not fair . 
if the truth be known , I do not think we have to look much further than this bill to begin to see why . 
Mr. Walt Lastewka 
some hon. members : 
it was the Doukhobor people ' s custom to live in a communal lifestyle when they came to Canada . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Bernard Bigras 
why can it not stop for a few minutes ? 
these are the countries whose diplomatic policies have the greatest impact on Canada . 
Mr. Speaker , it hurts me to say this but I would like to compliment my two Liberal colleagues on their speeches . 
fisheries leaders have worked with native chiefs to find a way to recognize native treaty rights . 
i believe we have an opportunity here , as senators , to do something positive . 
in the interim until that happens , because it will not happen overnight and will probably take years , I would suggest to the parliamentary secretary that he stand with us and with the farmers . 
the Speaker : 
( b ) the nature of the injuries caused to the spouse or the severe psychological damage inflicted on the spouse by the other spouse and the criminal record , if any , of the other spouse ; 
i ask all members of the House over the Christmas recess and as we approach the millennium to reflect on these acts of violence and to ask ourselves what is at the core of these acts of continued violence in our young people . 
moreover , these institutes will be virtual , since they will allow researchers in universities , hospitals and other research centres in Canada , as well as university students , to communicate with each other and to share information electronically . 
this bill would open up those records or allow access to those records so that those who are hiring people or bringing on volunteers or putting people in place to care for children can perform thorough checks . 
can we imagine calling for those kinds of cutbacks and now arguing the other side ? 
nays 
bill C - 363 . 
the same goes for secretaries and all other occupational groups . 
they must be clear . 
these children are armed with guns that are light enough for an eight - year - old to carry and shoot , or with machetes sharp enough to slice off arms and legs . 
it is useless to dwell on what might have been , but surely we can try to move forward instead of reinforcing the same old mistakes . 
that the debate be now adjourned . 
i am definitely not a sovereignist ; I am definitely not a Liberal . 
that is an important bit of advice to heed at this time . 
the honourable senator says the Nisga ' a will not go to arbitration . 
yes , there is a lot of tedium to it , but at this particular time of year , as Senator Murray will know , many things must come together so the government can get its supply by March 31 . 
that Bill C - 9 be amended by adding after line 29 on page 7 the following new clause : 
can the parliamentary secretary answer how he is going to continue to defend those types of attacks and persecution of our farmers ? 
if so , when can we expect to see some activity on this file ? 
again , I just point out that from our point of view these grants and contributions are extraordinarily important . 
table of Contents 
the United Nations Committee on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights observed in December 1998 : 
i appreciate the fact that the hon. member collaborated what I said with regard to the fact that it was consulted . 
i believe it was a slip . 
once again , Bill C - 6 is an example . 
we trust them to sort out their own affairs . 
we are giving young Canadian volunteers the opportunity to help with literacy skills and participate in community and national environmental projects . 
somehow the government wants to completely change our national airline and asks Canadians to have faith in the process , all the while changing the rules of engagement as it goes along . 
in this connection I will read into the record the provisions of the Competition Act dealing specifically with telemarketing . 
when will the minister deliver a fair and dignified compensation package to the merchant mariners so they will not be forced into another hunger strike ? 
( division 444 ) 
most importantly , it was the only lever available to the federal government to have a direct influence on this transaction , which will determine to a large extent the future of air transportation in Canada . 
certainly Bill C - 4 would be an example of that . 
does the hon. member have another point of order ? 
this will not impact only Saskatchewan , Manitoba and parts of Alberta ; it will impact all of Canada . 
Mr. Jim Jones ( Markham , PC ) : 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
( division 511 ) 
the highlight of the trip was the changes that have taken place . 
sir John A . Macdonald created Canada ' s national park in 1885 when he stepped in to protect 26 kilometres around the hot mineral spring near what is now the town of Banff , declaring it a national treasure . 
in addition , I am going further by discussing with them not just the elimination of exports of bulk water . 
yeas 
because Canada Post operates a closed bidding system , there was no way for the contractor to verify the claim of the postal representative . 
these are in the form of loan remission programs . 
i invite any student of Canadian history to look at the copyright date , which is 1992 . 
why not get the answers now before we go down a garden path that we do not want to be going down ? 
they came with the expectation and hope that there would be some federal response . 
members 
yet , when we examine the Speech from the Throne , supposedly the speech laying out the legislative program of the federal government which claims it lies awake nights trying to figure out how to make this federation work better , there is no recognition of this regional fact at all , no new principles or visions that respond to the new wind that is blowing out of Atlantic Canada . 
i stress intent of the bill because certainly as a private member ' s item it is quite difficult for an individual bill to be as comprehensive as say , for instance , the special joint Commons - Senate committee on custody and access . 
every single action I have seen in the House , every single example that is used by the Reform Party when it comes to aboriginal people , has been negative , has been allegations of what it perceives to be corruption , and has been divisive . 
indeed , its legislative agenda was so thin that it was not sure it would take us to the Christmas recess . 
this sets a balance between the protection of the public and the right of individuals to enjoy the full effect of a pardon . 
it is a takeover of Canada ' s most important public services and programs by the world ' s largest corporations . 
it says here that that information on you should be disclosed " for statistical , or scholarly study " or in subparagraph ( g ) for " historic or archival importance " . 
Mr. Speaker , I remind the House , farmers , and all Canadians of the opposition party ' s election promise that it would take some $ 600 million out of support to agriculture . 
i am not aware of the type of language that the member for Lakeland uses outside of the House , but one thing is clear , that is unparliamentary language and I would ask that the member for Lakeland apologize and withdraw those comments . 
the next question is on Motion No. 12 . 
hon. Don Boudria 
i recognize the whole issue of data services these days . 
we do not fill out forms . 
none of us had ever visited it firsthand , and so we had to rely on hearsay to respond . 
" parliament or a prerogative of the Crown , other than an instrument issued , made or established under the Yukon Act , the Northwest Territories Act or the Nunavut Act . " 
for instance , one estimate places the cost of buying software on the Internet at 20 cents to 50 cents per transaction as opposed to $ 5 for a telephone order and $ 15 our a traditional retailer . 
in rural areas , the phone bill has been going up year after year . 
the answer to that was " Absolutely '' . 
Mr. Speaker , we have obtained information on an HRDC job subsidy program . 
four hundred and eighty offenders have gone unlawfully at large from Canadian prisons since April 1998 and have not been recaptured . 
Doug Massey is a fisherman . 
the number in the act was 50 . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
people who are concerned about the erosion of democracy and the erosion of the power of parliament should also be concerned about the erosion of the power of parliament by virtue of the transfer of the powers of parliament to the marketplace through these various agreements . 
my hon. colleague did thank him for that . 
we face the prospect of bloody local and regional disputes spawned by nationalist secessionist movements anywhere in the world . 
sections 4 , 9 and 14 come into force on February 07 , 2004 and the remaining provisions of this Act come into " 
the Deputy Speaker 
although there have been many disagreements among members of both chambers , there has , nevertheless , been a sense of mutual respect for each other ' s role in our confederation . 
a total of $ 3 billion , or 30 % , of the national defence budget of $ 10 billion is spent annually on untendered contracts . 
honourable senators , the fact is that government intervention in the economy and our lives was at its height . 
is it to prevent a full comparison and disclosure of the political management of this fund ? 
as usual , the government is taking the easy way out to change legislation that is quite successful . 
i know the government does not care about taxpayers but I never thought that it would go as far as denying taxpayers the right to vote . 
section 13 comes into force on February 11 , 2012 and the remaining provisions of this Act come into " 
Mr. John Reynolds ( West Vancouver - Sunshine Coast , Ref. ) : 
i would also like to thank the members of the clergy who spared no effort to make this visit a great success . 
in any case , there is the possibility for us to listen to the speeches of the hon. members . 
Mr. Speaker , when a law is being amended in the midst of things , it cannot be said that no one has intervened in the process , no one would believe it . 
Ms. Val Meredith 
Mr. Michel Bellehumeur 
Mr. Speaker , I have the honour to present the 14 th report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs regarding the membership and associate membership of some standing committees . 
that way the expensive cost of court challenges , which will eventually strike down all the limits , could have been avoided . 
on division . 
Mrs. Michelle Dockrill ( Bras d ' Or - Cape Breton , NDP ) : 
we know that Gina Cameron , the program co - ordinator for the Beddington Heights Community Association , said that this member has not been in their doors . 
the Auditor General even said that this terrible situation was the most disturbing one that he had encountered in his nine years in that function . 
i can assure my hon. friend , who will probably never experience this , that hard decisions are hard decisions . 
motion No. 369 negatived 
Mr. Eug è ne Bellemare 
president Kennedy saw the space race as just that , a race to obtain economic , scientific , military and ideological supremacy of one superpower over another . 
Mr. Myron Thompson 
it is important that every member of parliament be involved to ensure that the dollars my colleague across the way referred to will go to the people and the organizations which have applied , to ensure that there is accountability and to ensure that the proper paperwork has been done . 
hon. Robert D . Nault 
it can help protect mediocre or even bad management . 
the government is so undemocratic it refuses to do that . 
" 20.1 ( 1 ) On the expiration of four years after the coming into force of this Act , the provisions contained herein shall be referred to such committee of both Houses of Parliament as may be designated or established by Parliament for that purpose . 
Mr. Ian Murray ( Lanark - Carleton , Lib . ) : 
Ontario 
can the President of the Treasury Board assure Canadians today that the government is ready to deal with any potential problems ? 
we need something else . 
Wednesday , October 20 will be dedicated to confronting violence against women . 
this afternoon , during question period , the Prime Minister answered questions from the Bloc . 
members 
government RESPONSE TO PETITIONS 
hon. Jane Stewart 
we all know that money exists to make a national child care program a reality . 
the article also revealed that Mr. Weekes continues as a senior adviser to the Government of Canada . 
as for the bill before us , all stakeholders came to tell us in committee that the federal government had not consulted those involved sufficiently . 
when the officials were before the committee , I asked Stephanie Perrin , Director , Privacy Policy , Electronic Commerce Task Force , Department of Industry , about this , and I said : 
hon. Donald H . Oliver : 
aspects of this traditional approach are still strong within the public service but are often being challenged now by other trends . 
* * * 
they are going to look at their paycheques at the end of the day and they will believe they have tax relief when the federal deductions have been reduced . 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit 
however , doctors and nurses must be protected . 
when I was in the labour movement I could do that with one phone call and I would get 500 people out '' . 
the Government of Canada , especially since our government took office in 1993 , has understood this fact and put certain measures in place to enable our businesses to seize every opportunity . 
we cannot do it by giving collective rights to a group . 
senator Boudreau : 
second Reading 
it is just Reform politics . 
Canadian District of theMoravian Church of America 
the Government will report regularly on the results achieved in addressing the top environmental concerns of Canadians . 
this is just part of the tax reform we should be seeing . 
Mr. Speaker , Quebecers are fortunate to have two governments with constitutional powers , two parliaments with constitutional powers , and Quebec ' s democracy finds expression here as well . 
- the federal government ' s bad faith opens the door to a unilateral declaration of sovereignty . 
NISGA ' A FINAL AGREEMENT ACT 
Mr. Randy White ( Langley - Abbotsford , Ref. ) : 
the advantage to that is that both sides would again get to try to negotiate a settlement but they would have to be reasonable in their final offers . 
many issues arise to which only the chairman of the committee can respond . 
i do not know what he is doing . 
Mr. Speaker , I have a communique from a Saskatchewan resident for the agriculture minister . 
agreed . 
does he remember Bill S - 31 , which limited ownership in a Canadian company to 10 % ? 
we have contingency planning for the Y 2 K event that will be happening not too many days ahead of us . 
another aspect of the bill with which I have a strong disagreement is its continuation of the system of public financing of parties and candidates through reimbursement , which costs over $ 20 million in an election year . 
the Nisga ' a Constitution is central to the exercise of a democratic Nisga ' a government . 
Canadians might be interested to learn that at the federal level there is no such ceiling . 
they are the enemies of the health of Canadians . 
report of Canadian Group on 102 nd Inter - Parliamentary Conference Held in Berlin , Germany - Inquiry - Debate Adjourned 
clerk of the Senate 
when I was a youngster my dad used to ask " How come when I buy a combine or a tractor that is manufactured in Ontario I have to pay the freight to get it from Ontario to Saskatchewan , but when I sell them my wheat I have to pay the freight to send their wheat back to Ontario ? " 
if Air Canada came forward with a proposal which violated the 10 % rule , my take on that would be that it would be saying that it does not meet the requirements of the law of the land now , but it would respectfully submit that there is a proposal on the floor which now exceeds the rule and it would like its proposal to be considered as well . 
why does the government seem so absolutely determined not only to pass this bill but to pass it before the Christmas break , to the extent that I would not be surprised to see it use closure on it ? 
i shall turn now to the subject of the scope and intent of a shelter strategy for aboriginal families . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl : 
Mr. Speaker , I was just going to suggest to you precisely that in an an effort to have the debate start as quickly as possible . 
the danger imposed by modern day organized crime is a serious and destructive force . 
nays 
for a province like Nova Scotia , which faces a huge deficit and has just cancelled programs for charities , it is questionable whether or not it will have the funds to prepare for some of the positive aspects of the legislation . 
the next Sommet de la Francophonie , which will follow the one held in New Brunswick , will take place in Lebanon , in the year 2001 . 
Wednesday , November 24 , 1999 
that is to say , he should make sure the societies they study are cognate before taking away their positive law . 
they would say " You weren ' t speaking the right official language , what did you do wrong ? " 
Mr. Derek Lee ( Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
to sum up , the throne speech contained a number of smooth and flowery words . 
i would argue frankly that this is a good example of why we need it . 
such negotiations should never be undertaken on the basis on an uncertain majority that might not hold firm in the face of the inevitable difficulties engendered by the breakup of a country . 
they do not believe in it . 
we need privacy surrounding medical records and records in terms of who is on social welfare . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl : 
hon. Lorna Milne , pursuant to notice of November 24 , 1999 , moved : 
they have knee - jerk decision making policies . 
agreed . 
his brother found him hanging with the little red Bible on the floor near his feet . 
in this country north varies within political , cultural , territorial and geographic areas . 
hon. St é phane Dion ( President of the Queen ' s Privy Council for Canada and Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs , Lib . ) : 
i congratulate him on his ability to set out these issues from his perspective . 
to do anything less would be wrong . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
the issue is the absolute mismanagement of huge amounts of public funds and the partisan political decision making that is taking place . 
hon. Lowell Murray : 
however , here he is financing the HRD minister ' s nasty little habit with millions for Dairy Queen , Videotron and a contractor for Wal - Mart , to name but a few of the thousands of examples . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
i do not want politicians telling cultural agencies what art is or what history is . 
unfortunately for the Libman case , in 1992 Professor Johnston and his colleagues published a book called Letting the People Decide . 
these rights which are protected for non - native women in Canada include the rights to an equal division of property on marriage breakdown , inheritance and expropriation on reserve lands . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
we know that the minister was briefed as early as last August about the mismanaged $ 1 billion . 
will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm today the promise that all outstanding AIDA money will be in the hands of farmers by Christmas this year ? 
she has been walking side by side with Father É mile for over 20 years in service of the Melkite Church and the Arab community of the State of Israel . 
in the city of Vancouver alone the people of Vancouver are overcontributing over $ 2 million to the federal government . 
what makes the federal parliament better able to assess the clarity of the question than the Quebec national assembly ? 
the parliamentary secretary is very thin - skinned on the topic of democracy . 
if the honourable senator opposite wishes to meet with our leadership to change the committee ' s time slot , so be it . 
members 
Mr. John Nunziata ( York South - Weston , Ind . ) : 
we will be left with corporate farming . 
there is no need for us to repeat ourselves . 
no , no , when we are in the Senate . 
football 
members 
in conclusion , I would point out that the Bloc Quebecois opposes Bill C - 2 . 
order . 
business OF THE HOUSE 
families earning between $ 30,000 and $ 70,000 in Canada constitute 27 % of Canadian taxpayers . 
* * * 
we are not perfect as human beings , unfortunately . 
the Speaker : 
Mr. Speaker , yesterday the minister responsible for the homeless said she was working seven days a week on a strategy for the homeless . 
edited HANSARD * NUMBER 14 
our comment is that there have been instances internationally which show that a foreign company can offer competition . 
she continued : 
the current provisions of the code include reference to colour , race , religion and ethnic origin . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
nays 
he wrote , " Along with my letter to the finance minister and the Prime Minister , I enclosed a copy of our family budget to show exactly how difficult it is . 
delayed Answers to Oral Questions 
members 
hon. Lorne Nystrom 
i would like the member to comment on that . 
i wonder . 
hon. John Manley ( Minister of Industry , Lib . ) : 
first , part 1 of the bill will ensure the protection of personal information collected , used and disclosed by the private sector . 
however , they did find that the weight of student debt was unequally borne by those in less fortunate financial situations . 
let us turn to the experts for a moment and ask them . 
i am talking about inclusivity . 
it is in the best interest of both parties to have some consensus on a clear question . 
i spent all four weeks of September in nine of the ten provinces and in nearly 30 communities speaking to business people , entrepreneurs , chambers of commerce and small business folks . 
we are the people who come to the government with an understanding of what it is like to have to make tough decisions '' . 
business people tell us constantly " Look , let us do our work . 
the Nisga ' a treaty , as with other modern treaties , should rise above the ordinary back and forth and thrust of partisan debate . 
i am not sure whether the Prime Minister or the government House leader had time to read the bill . 
however , I , who came upon Senator Stewart here in the Senate , have learned that he is , for me anyway , the greatest teacher that I ever met . 
i described earlier the complexities and challenges of the increasingly interconnected , globally competitive environment . 
standing Joint Committees - Message from Commons 
the throne speech did not have one reference to the farm crisis . 
i cannot understand why it would do that on such an important piece of legislation . 
i understand that is what they have been telling them . 
if it does , we will be pleased to support its bill . 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to inform the House that all the Reform speakers will be splitting their time today on this motion . 
national POLLUTANT RELEASE INVENTORY 
volunteers 
borders could be subject to negotiation . 
Mr. Speaker , I agree with what the hon. member recently said . 
he knows full well that there are discussions going on in co - operation with the provinces , the safety nets advisory committee and the industry to put in place the long term safety net program . 
the bill ' s failure to involve aboriginal peoples is particularly problematic , some might even say offensive , when one considers the prominent role it gives to the Senate , or to the other place as we are required to say in this place . 
succinctly stated , the issue of freedom of religion is guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , as is the freedom of association . 
did he give up ? 
we can see the reactions of the Liberal members opposite . 
the Speaker : 
Thursday , December 2 , 1999 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
committees are supposed to answer to parliament but the minister preordained the vote in a committee meeting . 
a great deal of money had to be invested in the technology for launching these satellites , putting them in service , recovering them if necessary , ensuring they are operating properly , determining their lifespans , and so on . 
however , the government refused to discuss the issue ; it even boycotted meetings . 
criminal CODE 
royal CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE ACT 
canada is not the only country that is facing this problem . 
Mr. Speaker , earlier this week the Minister of Health hired a real insider to try to convince the Canadian public that he was committed to decreasing smoking among kids . 
that is really different from this country . 
the other thing I would like to mention very briefly about the reconciliation issue is that when the hon. member for Mississauga South was speaking , he was talking about this being for the benefit of children . 
in fact , the elderly no longer belong to a single group known as the third age . 
it has not done so and there is little in the Speech from the Throne that indicates it is prepared to do so . 
under the current set up we have a program that is directly responsible to parliament through the Department of Industry . 
Mr. Speaker , following the introduction by the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs of a bill denying the fundamental rights of Quebecers , I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to table a document , which will enlighten the House . 
funding will amount to $ 500 million in 2001 - 02 . 
this bill is the result of a process I started more than two years ago with Richard Gauvin , the president of the Davie workers union , in order to bring together all the stakeholders in the Canadian shipbuilding industry . 
hon. St é phane Dion 
an hon. member : 
pay EQUITY 
Herbert Christian from Kenville said " The AIDA formula does not recognize the extreme need of farmers who have had depressed incomes for several years '' . 
Tony Toldo is an example of the Canadian dream . 
division No. 243 
Mr. G é rard Asselin 
notice of Motion to Authorize National Finance Committee to Study Estimates - Debate Adjourned 
hon. John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) : 
he further indicated on the issue of child pornography and Robin Sharpe that Canada has been made the subject of international scorn and ridicule . 
Mr. Michel Gauthier 
Mr. Speaker , did you know that we have a Pulitzer prize contender in the federal government ? 
she decided that a decision that could have applied only to Ontario would be binding throughout Canada . 
the member indicates that he is looking to the government to provide vision . 
instead of handing out tax breaks for their wealthy friends , the Liberals should direct some of the projected $ 100 billion surplus to social housing construction . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 172 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
the program will not trigger for him . 
on this day , much is before the courts as the deal drives a wedge between aboriginal groups , between British Columbians and will likely disturb much across the country . 
members 
paired 
division No. 205 
hon. David M. Collenette ( Minister of Transport Lib . ) : 
the relatively lower cost of the Canadian medicare system in particular and features of the unemployment insurance system , together with Canada ' s supportive system of social services and well run cities and municipalities , have historically been a locational competitive advantage for Canada . 
when we compare the government ' s commitments today with what was in the red book in 1993 , it seems to me that we are moving further and further away from any kind of program the government is committed to , to actually make child care a reality . 
the minister took it upon himself to amend section 47 , essentially telling the competition bureau : " This is none of your business , I am using section 47 to give the airlines 90 days to prepare their bid and come to an agreement . " 
Mr. Michel Bellehumeur ( Berthier - Montcalm , BQ ) : 
two reports have been produced for parliament to consider , the Estey and Kroeger reports . 
car loans would have increased . 
i would like to begin by taking this opportunity to acknowledge the great growth of the Canadian tourism market over the past number of years . 
they do not all have voices as strong as that of the hon. member . 
honourable senators , think about what was going on in the world in 1968 . 
if there is one thing I know , having many family members in the trades , they never dream of showing up to a job site without their own tool kit . 
Mrs. Michelle Dockrill ( Bras d ' Or - Cape Breton , NDP ) : 
Monday , November 22 , 1999 
call in the members . 
Mr. Bob Speller 
i declare Motion No. 74 lost . 
even if they had not , I believe , having had four speakers in a row from the hon. member ' s party , that it is time for a change as they say , if someone else wishes to speak and someone else does . 
they expect the government to manage the spending of their money with due diligence and to make sure that it is not wasted . 
are we to tell these communities that Ottawa has nothing for them as the government decides what to do with its impressive and growing budget surplus ? 
food Labelling 
i would like to ask the hon. member this question . 
in terms of the member ' s second question , we are not about to bring in sex police or anything else that he might have alluded to in terms of enforcement . 
and the bells having rung : 
nays 
there would be no doubt where the missile came from and not much doubt about the consequences for the perpetrator . 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit ( Lakeland , Ref. ) : 
as their elected representative I will continue to work with my colleagues as well as with the private sector and NGOs to meet the challenges of the new millenium , which were outlined in the Speech from the Throne . 
the enactment extends the franchise to returning officers and gives the chief electoral officer the discretion to adjust voting hours for electoral districts that do not switch to daylight saving time during the summer months . 
i am proud to salute Stephane Levesque and his great upper Ottawa valley company . 
i was wondering if it might be possible to receive this evening the approval of the House on a bill that has been before the House on a private members ' issue , Bill C - 202 , dealing with high speed chases . 
members may remember the meeting of Canada ' s premiers held in Quebec City last autumn and hosted by the premier of Quebec , Lucien Bouchard . 
tabling OF DOCUMENTS 
it has been reported that the proposed premium increase could increase the federal government ' s cost by $ 100 million . 
the cuts that are being made or were made were unilateral . 
Mr. Speaker , allow me to point out that under the Immigration Act , immigration and refugee board members including the chairperson are appointed by governor in council . 
mike Harris does it in Ontario . 
this is the purpose of this bill . 
members 
honourable senators , I have been receiving calls from farmers who have filed applications under the AIDA program . 
this leads me to point out that the Haig case in the early 1990 s was really because of the Canadian Human Rights Act , and section 10 of that legislation was struck down because it did not put an end to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation . 
that was the difficulty in which we found ourselves . 
i come from a generation of trappers and hunters . 
there being no further members rising for debate and the motion not being designated as a votable item , the time provided for the consideration of Private Members ' Business has expired and the order is dropped from the order paper . 
mount ROYAL 
paired 
i will give him the benefit of the doubt , but I said $ 3.5 billion , not $ 3.9 billion . 
i want to take a few moments at the beginning of my presentation to read from the introduction of the bill itself because to me it summarizes what it is we are trying to do today . 
the Bloc Quebecois has supported measures to amend the Criminal Code to allow the removal and expulsion of war criminals . 
any discussion based on oral tradition must , by its very nature , be considered to be interpretative rather than grounded on objective fact . 
Lynda was an active politician for a number of years . 
Mr. Marcel Proulx ( Hull - Aylmer , Lib . ) : 
members 
hear , hear ! 
( questions regarding the classification of the document and security procedures : ) 
motion No. 9 negatived 
on division . 
we all know how badly we need Senate reform . 
in the final analysis it is probably not even smart to try . 
he is the one who opened the doors for me among the minorities who fight for the survival of the French fact across Canada . 
note , honourable senators , that , in recent years , both the current and the previous governments have been trying to ensure that bills do not contain legal definitions or operational procedures that could be challenged or amended when examined by members of Parliament , the standing committees of both Houses , or interest groups . 
honourable senators , I gave a speech earlier this year on the state of black community in Canada . 
thankfully , slavery in the British Commonwealth ended on August 1 , 1834 . 
members 
the government has already begun discussions with manufacturers of these devices so as to reduce toxic emissions and greenhouse gases . 
religious indoctrination was used to control the population in the conquered territories . 
with leave , you can . 
i have notice of a point of order from the hon. member for Kamloops , Thompson and Highland Valleys . 
they wanted prosperity . 
however , the study reminds us that these obligations affect the provincial governments much more than they do the federal government , which are essentially the ones exercising jurisdiction over the fields of government activity in relation to mobility . 
in fact , if Talisman were to vanish tomorrow from Sudan , it probably would make absolutely no difference to the activity there . 
there is an absence of contract rights . 
the question is on Motion No. 3 . 
i well understand that another head office like that of Air Canada and all the other head offices will end up in Quebec . 
there should have been a reference in the Speech from the Throne stating that we should be doing something about immigration . 
i declare Motion No. 129 lost . 
she said " I no longer consider the support of my generation to the sovereignty project as a definitive and irrevocable given '' . 
it is truly an in - depth and very well - documented study by Senator Simard on the situation of Canada ' s francophone and Acadian communities . 
as of October 25 , this program had disbursed only $ 227 million , less than 13 per cent of what the minister describes as a $ 1.78 billion aid package . 
we must develop real housing and labour markets on reserves , including equal economic rights for men and women . 
we are talking here about a yearly appropriation bill for the fiscal year 1999 - 2000 . 
what respect are we showing for Ottawa , home of the Parliament of Canada , for the federal public service , for the embassies around the world ? 
some hon. members : 
Mr. John Herron 
delayed Answers to Oral Questions 
that we have had problems with respect to our implementation is a matter of public record . 
yesterday as he arrived in Ottawa he called on the Reform Party leader to ensure that the members of the Reform Party caucus stopped making incorrect allegations about the Nisga ' a treaty which is currently before parliament . 
we have found ourselves very nearly engaged in that process already . 
some hon. members : 
this year , as in previous years , the government and most parties in the House have wanted to repeat this exercise . 
it was a reprehensible example from over there . 
yeas 
that is what this program is all about . 
foreign Affairs 
my question to Senator Lynch - Staunton concerns precisely Bill C - 20 . As I said before , I was a supporter of former prime minister Trudeau , and I still am . 
senator Lynch - Staunton : 
members 
the requirement for clarity has nothing to do with this . 
the peace treaty was signed in 1760 and , 250 years later , we have to interpret what happened . 
the Standing Committee on Industry had every possible opportunity to inform the minister about the impact on Quebec of this legislation , although it is good news in the rest of Canada . 
one only has to think about Sylvie Fr é chette , the Villagos twins , the Duchesnays and many others . 
one of the country ' s most alarming attributes is the expanding gulf between the views of the Ottawa establishment , the bureaucracy and some politicians , in other words the Ottawa court party , and the views of the average taxpaying Canadian who lives out there in the general populace . 
i declare the motion carried . 
the Prime Minister recently reopened the constitutional debate . 
i recommend to all members a book they should read called Lament for an Ocean . 
today , the minister introduced Bill C - 15 , an act to amend the International Boundary Waters Treaty Act . 
the leaders of the maritime colonies had planned to meet at Charlottetown in the fall to discuss the perennial topic of maritime union . 
Mr. Richard M. Harris 
last summer we finally got around to the issue of impaired driving . 
i want to recognize as well the concern that many have voiced about the failure of the United Nations to respond to a continent that is undergoing profound agony . 
Mr. Speaker , do you know what pleasure means ? 
that was the government ' s position at 7 p.m. yesterday evening . 
the message about the importance of Canadian children is very clear , both in the throne speech and long before that in the policies and actions of this government . 
he spent a career from 1988 to 1993 constantly on his feet fighting that issue . 
the Speaker 
honourable senators , I know from previous experience that it is not in order for me to answer a question unless the leader is absent . 
we will be looking increasingly at public - private partnerships . 
are we going to help every single farmer 100 % of the time ? 
some provinces have continually done less year after year after year . 
that means that all pensioners whose interest income is not enough for them to pay income tax , all students who earn a little over the summer , all those on social assistance and the unemployed who still believe enough in politics to give $ 20 to my colleague from Frontenac - M é gantic will be penalized because they will never be compensated by the federal government in the form of a tax credit . 
i ' m even more pleased to report that the Association has been able to increase its annual job placements from 500 to 750 in just one year , resulting in annual savings to taxpayers in excess of $ 18M. 
motion negatived 
that project is presently seen as being not a labour - intensive program but an equipment - intensive program . 
paired 
Mr. Jim Hart ( Okanagan - Coquihalla , Ref. ) : 
he married a woman from the Sucker Creek Band at High Prairie who had been on treaty . 
the problem is not the creation of the institutes per se . 
we operate a 2500 acre mixed farm with a value - added type business processing seed . 
that is a committee working as it should . 
furthermore , those researchers will train our students to become the best and the brightest in the world . 
when young offenders re - enter society , they will not be anonymous citizens the way they are today when the existing Young Offenders Act is enforced the way it was intended to be and funds are made available , as they are by Quebec . 
hon. Robert D . Nault ( Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development , Lib . ) : 
Webster ' s Dictionary defines democracy as " a form of government in which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised directly by them or by their agents under a free electoral system '' . 
the government is actually trying to limit competition on the ballot . 
nays 
hon. David M. Collenette 
this represents 20 % of the cost of running all the hospitals in Quebec , accounts for the closing of half the hospitals in the Montreal area - and I am convinced the statistics would be the same , a little lower maybe , for hospitals in the Chaudi è re - Appalaches region - and is equivalent to the cost of caring for 370,000 patients . 
we had 21 seats and the Bloc had 44 seats , double the seats of the NDP but the same number of votes . 
that the committee be empowered to submit its final report no later than February 16 , 2000 , and that the committee retain all powers necessary to publicize the findings of the committee contained in the final report until February 29 , 2000 , and 
canada likes to say what it is and what it wants . 
third , I will state our position on minimum sentences , as we have criticisms in this respect . 
Mr. Grant McNally ( Dewdney - Alouette , Ref. ) : 
* * * 
the minister has to go . 
honourable senators , I think , as Senator Hays was asking leave to revert later so Senator Gauthier could make his notice of motion , Senator Gauthier was right on his feet ready to make the notice of motion . 
adjournment PROCEEDINGS 
i do not think so . 
that the Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs , Science and Technology have power to engage the services of such counsel and technical , clerical and other personnel as may be necessary for the purpose of its examination and consideration of such bills , subject matters of bills and estimates as are referred to it . 
if the criminal code does not make it crystal clear that is what parliament intended , the government should introduce legislation that makes that crystal clear to the courts . 
Mr. Dan McTeague 
a pioneer in outdoor recreational activities , he helped build centres such as the Auberge du P ' tit Bonheur , Camp Jeune - Air and many others . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
when we talk about child poverty , we cannot talk about it without talking about family poverty . 
in particular , the bill must be clarified and amended as required to incorporate specific rules relating to health information , rules that will place strong emphasis on the protection of privacy and that will ensure that the flow of health information is on a need - to - know basis and only under the control of the patient through informed consent . 
by the way , we do not call them " rapists " any more . 
madam Speaker , it is a pleasure to have this opportunity to speak to Bill C - 2 , the Canada Elections Act . 
Ms. Libby Davies ( Vancouver East , NDP ) : 
homelessness is a real and severe issue facing too many Canadians today ; it is one that I had hoped the government would address at length in the Speech From the Throne . 
i have notes on this here and it is important to know this . 
i know he referred to this in his speech but perhaps he could clarify it . 
we have a 250 year old treaty , with all the lawyers we have in Canada . 
hon. Lucienne Robillard ( President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for Infrastructure , Lib . ) : 
we are investing $ 300 million in the RRAP . 
Mr. Speaker , today I want to pay tribute to a great democrat and a true visionary . 
yea . 
this colleague was elected so that he could express himself , express his ideas . 
the government was warned in hearings held by the Standing Senate Committee on Transport and Communications on the ports bill that , if it was not careful , the Port of Halifax might find itself not only without the cash to put that facility in place but , more important , the means of raising the required capital . 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
hon. Anne McLellan 
Mr. Gilles - A . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 388 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
in 1995 the Nisga ' a were awarded the Department of Fisheries and Oceans management prize for these efforts . 
table of Contents 
however , it is in the interests of all parties that it stand a reasonable chance of success . 
fort Folly ( 2 ) - Groundfish , Lobster 
justice 
maybe the hon. member who is mouthing off on that side of the House would like to talk about the 18 or 20 suicides that have occurred in the last few weeks in those western provinces . 
in addition , the dangerous offender legislation might well be applied to an individual who had committed more than one murder . 
paired 
madam Speaker , I do know there are ongoing problems that we as Canadians face and that certainly we as a government face . 
Mr. Peter MacKay 
Mr. Gerald Keddy ( South Shore , PC ) : 
we need only look at the make - up of the representation in this House to appreciate how that respect for values is manifest . 
i declare Motion No. 370 lost . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe : 
this summer , my wife and I had the pleasure of visiting the region of New Brunswick in which Mr. LeBlanc will be enjoying his retirement , and we can readily understand his desire to live in that magnificent part of the country . 
that was the request . 
they have just launched Historica , a new foundation that will bring more Canadian history into our classrooms . 
Mr. Reed Elley ( Nanaimo - Cowichan , Ref. ) : 
as parents today we must lead the way and set an example for others and for those who follow in our footsteps . 
i would say the same thing about the heritage portfolio , for which I am the chief critic . 
all this does is prevent someone from trying to run to raise money for their own personal benefit . 
motion No. 55 
senators opposite proposed in their majority report that the government begin the next review immediately after the passage of Bill C - 32 . 
this solution is the creation of a new international instrument on cultural diversity . 
hon. Don Boudria : 
will he agree for the time being , according to the umbrella agreement between the Government of Quebec and the federal government - signed I believe by Paul Martin senior - to there being rules that can fill the gap he now finds in the constitutional system ? 
the Prime Minister and member for Saint - Maurice really does have nerve . 
however , one thing we do know is that farmers in Western Canada are among the most productive , efficient and innovative agricultural producers in the world . 
i hope there is no fault alleged in relation to the minister here . 
liberalism taught me to respect those individuals who possess those unique personal characteristics necessary for creating wealth and employment for other people . 
for a parent to be accused falsely of something so terrible is soul - destroying . 
in all seriousness , I would suggest to him that maybe we should put in place a failure to learn from one ' s mistakes tax because of the Conservative ' s stand on the referendum law . 
a negative vote on Motion No. 46 requires the question to be put on Motions Nos. 47 to 49 . 
while research will continue to be subject to peer review , the new system will allow us to identify gaps in knowledge and direct our efforts to filling those gaps . 
basic education is critical to bettering the lot of the world ' s children and it is a priority for CIDA . 
Mr. Speaker , I am aware that officials from the department were at the standing committee this morning . 
Mrs. Maud Debien ( Laval East , BQ ) : 
some hon. members : 
where are we now ? 
Mr. Paul Forseth 
the Speaker : 
let us read paragraph by paragraph and then we ' ll start having discussions on what the treaty really says " versus this myth treaty that it has been promoting in British Columbia . 
Mr. Speaker , contrary to what the hon. member says , our government has indeed taken steps to make the public service even more inclusive . 
national Defence 
it will slash , burn and destroy programs . 
during third reading debate , we were advised that if the union wanted to advance its claim to part ownership of that surplus , all it had to do was take up a court action . 
i am happy that we have time enough to address this issue and the other issues we mentioned this morning . 
if it was impossible for both he and I to do so , we would agree who should do it - that is , if it was necessary to be done . 
its obedience to the reference is indicated through the committee report to the Senate . 
the farm crisis has been discussed for months . 
yeas 
the Late Gordon Harvey Aiken , Q . C . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
we have had that experience in the City of Moncton . 
some hon. members : 
i hope that this debate will not be pointless and that what is said will not fall on deaf ears , because we are taking the trouble to discuss for hours a number of amendments that we find relevant and significant . 
what has been potentially lost is the faith and the confidence that the community groups have in working with HRD . 
however , this process was never carried through to completion in British Columbia . 
in order to achieve speedy passage , the provision raising the maximum penalty for impaired driving causing death to life imprisonment was removed from Bill C - 82 and placed in Bill C - 87 . 
we will catch you the next time around . 
i am prepared to convey the senator ' s concerns to the minister in question . 
the bill would require all periods of custody to be followed by an intensive period of supervision in the community that is equal to half the period of custody . 
Mr. Dick Proctor ( Palliser , NDP ) : 
the situation would be paradoxical to say the least if same sex partners were recognized by lower level authorities , at the municipal level for example , but not by us here , in the federal government , in the Parliament of Canada . 
Mr. Michel Gauthier 
it will not be a surprise to anyone here if I take a different view . 
this is a first in road cycling in Quebec and in Canada . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
what was not in the finance committee report but the women ' s caucus feels strongly about , is that all aspects of public policy , in particular budget items , require a gender based analysis . 
members 
bill S - 9 would amend the Criminal Code , Part IV , entitled " Offences Against the Administration of Law and Justice , " being sections 118 to 149 . 
Mr. Speaker , last Monday 27 farmers were found guilty of illegally exporting grain by a Regina court . 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
[ - ] when I go out on the international scene I do not recommend that the Canadian system be emulated where it comes to the appointment of returning officers . 
that is a shame . 
throughout the speech , much attention was paid to the actions that the government will take to make a real difference in bettering the lot of this nation ' s children . 
as well , the two provincial governments of Manitoba and Saskatchewan and the federal government have a renewed commitment to review in an expeditious fashion the entire character of safety net programs for farmers in this country . 
it does not say whether the senator must be from the opposition or the governing party . 
as I remember , during the referendum campaign the Prime Minister very eloquently predicted that we were going to get it , that we were going to get under 40 % of the votes . 
Mr. Paul Forseth ( New Westminster - Coquitlam - Burnaby , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe ( Laurier - Sainte - Marie , BQ ) : 
Mr. Speaker , it is not included because it goes without saying that it is 50 % plus one , as it says in the supreme court ruling . 
international and Canadian organizations keep on looking for solutions to the ongoing problems of human rights violations , and to problems that have just been identified as such . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
i would like to reassure francophones outside Quebec of the solid support of the Liberal Government of Canada for their cause . 
the consultation process for appointments will draw on leading experts from every conceivable field of expertise , and this should reduce the influence of high ranking government officials . 
Mr. Speaker , on a point of order . 
the Senate is precisely the right place to record these grave words we all bear within ourselves , words that concern us all and concern the entire nation . 
the Tory member also talked about her party ' s task force on poverty . 
it meant that there was pressure on interest rates . 
Mr. Michel Bellehumeur ( Berthier - Montcalm , BQ ) : 
nays 
in some cases band members are not able to access the information that would help them prove their allegations . 
national Day of Remembrance 
and what about the recent events , which might be sad in certain respects , since they are only allegations ? 
that is my frustration . 
Mrs. Diane Ablonczy ( Calgary - Nose Hill , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Richard Marceau 
- advance Canada ' s place in the world . 
without any doubt , more intergovernmental consultations and collaboration will be needed if federal systems are to take advantage of the many opportunities and to minimize the negative effects of globalization . 
of course , to effect such a plan significant additional funding will be required in the next budget . 
i think it can happen . 
essentially , the bill is saying that people who do bad things and worse things simply should stay in prison longer than others . 
honourable senators , our committee received an order of reference , and the mandate of this house is honoured by the committee . 
i may be there . 
indeed , it is not leadership from the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans that has put in place the 30 day moratorium . 
life on the farm used to be enjoyable but has it ever changed ... 
the hon. member for St. Albert is perfectly right . 
with that lower production prices will go up and our farmers will have the level playing field that is so important to our economic well - being . 
the opposition would have those regions suffer due to a lack of employment opportunities . 
at the 19 minutes 26 seconds mark in the third period of the eighth game in Moscow , a goal by Paul Henderson carried Canada to victory . 
hon. St é phane Dion 
if the minister has supposedly cut taxes already , like he claimed yesterday , why is it that Canadians are not seeing it on their paycheques ? 
yeas 
hon. Lorna Milne : 
the Government will continue to build on the strong foundation of reconciliation and renewal created by Gathering Strength - Canada ' s Aboriginal Action Plan . 
if the government realizes there are so many acts and regulations already in place , why would we need another one ? 
is the House ready for the question ? 
such an amendment to the regulations in Canada would allow the company to standardize its formulation for all of North America . 
on November 20 , 1999 a private citizens ' referendum on the Nisga ' a treaty was held in Smithers , B.C. Residents from Hazelton , Moricetown , Telkwa , Houston , Burns Lake and Smithers all voted in that referendum . 
nays 
however , we also proposed these other measures , which more than compensated for that from the farmers ' standpoint and which would protect distortion adjustment mechanisms . 
* * * 
we are trying to get officers into the communities , the malls , the plazas and the schools , which fits right in with the comments that I made . 
Mr. Rick Borotsik 
they have been struggling because of excessive moisture in some cases and in others lack of moisture in certain parts of the country . 
it would be a distinction for Canada to house the new World Anti - Doping Agency . 
they are being processed . 
i am not so sure that purebred New Democrats , if there is such a thing , would really call him a socialist . 
presence IN GALLERY 
some hon. members : 
the issue of jurisdiction is extremely important . 
the transport minister and his officials have met with numerous direct stakeholders , have consulted with interest groups and members of the public and have received views through correspondence and other ways of getting in contact . 
i am sorry , but the hon. minister ' s time has expired . 
some hon. members : 
hon. Lorna Milne presented Bill S - 15 , to amend the Statistics Act and the National Archives of Canada Act ( census records ) . 
now we have a new treaty which is unique because negotiated in it is a government structure . 
( division 362 ) 
we see the terrible waste of tax dollars squandered on million dollar dinosaur statues , pornographic movies , free flags and hundreds of thousands of dollars for constructing dead trees and many other things . 
if the criminal code provides for new sexual offences , the schedule could be changed accordingly . 
before making my own comments , I will deal with a few things that were said by the minister . 
all around we are very clear on that . 
there is a rule in democracy , which I did not invent , that the more serious and irreversible a decision , the higher the approval threshold must be . 
Mr. R é al M é nard ( Hochelaga - Maisonneuve , BQ ) : 
will rural Canadians get their mail any faster as a result of this change ? 
how can the Liberals say it is even a semblance of democracy ? 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased to hear the hon. member speak of this whole matter , of what is reasonable and what is not . 
we lose our rights every day in the House . 
is that the - 
Mrs. Diane Ablonczy ( Calgary - Nose Hill , Ref. ) : 
hon. Don Boudria ( Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
we want aboriginal women to be full and equal partners , both on reserve and off reserve . 
holiday MESSAGE 
DFAIT should establish a process to formulate human rights guidelines and disseminate information on a timely basis , which all businesses dealing with the EDC should follow '' . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 100 , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
CANADIAN SECURITY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE 
Thosey would be dismissed at the first instance so that there would no waste of time of both the individual , and the department or the agency in question . 
they have their moms and dads , and their homes , whatever they might be . 
we have thousands and thousands of broken dreams because of the broken economy delivered by this government ' s high tax , high regulatory , high debt , high spending policies . 
our country has been run by a francophone from Quebec , a Quebecer , for the past 32 years , except for the nine months during which Joe Clark was in office . 
i guess the first thing that needs to be said is it is unfortunate in my view that this hearing was necessary . 
Mr. Speaker , in the same correction survey I just referred to over 80 % of the frontline staff said their stress level was not reduced one bit with his drug strategy . 
Mr. Speaker , then I seek unanimous consent of the House to revert to that item . 
therefore , the solution should focus on providing students with more options and flexibility when repaying their debt , with particular provisions geared to those in disadvantaged situations , so as to ensure accessibility . 
this clause serves no purpose in the legislation other than to tell the world that the Liberal administration had to be spanked by the supreme court and sent to its room . 
this is very sloppy indeed and is not the way to proceed . 
if we look at the issue of benefits first we can see that the new laws will treat Canadian couples more fairly . 
what financial assistance is the government prepared to provide in order to ensure that the Government of Ontario does not cite economic reasons for failing to act ? 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
yea . 
paired 
it is not something that affects a few people in the hinterland of western Canada . 
after playing around with all kinds of numbers , it does not dare setting a specific one because it knows full well it would not have the support of the international community . 
hon. Lloyd Axworthy ( Minister of Foreign Affairs , Lib . ) : 
( motion agreed to ) 
hon. Harbance Singh Dhaliwal ( Minister of Fisheries and Oceans , Lib . ) : 
the Prime Minister of Canada has listened to the people of Guelph - Wellington again . 
i see in the House tonight a number of members from New Brunswick . 
through these initiatives we are working actively to ensure that the concerns of all countries are heard at the United Nations before one of its key parliamentary institutions . 
( division 190 ) 
to appreciate the contributions and achievements of all people throughout the year will help to foster unity in this country to the benefit of all Canadians in the future . 
Mr. Derek Lee 
Mr. Speaker , I believe the hon. member is in error in his question when he refers to the profitability of InterCanadian . 
i declare Motion No. 104 lost . 
motion No. 188 
i declare Motion No. 154 lost . 
speaking of history , this year the Canadian Space Agency , which has its headquarters in Saint - Hubert , is celebrating its tenth anniversary . 
do they go , as most of us in the House would agree with , back into the highway system ? 
it will formalize and put victims rights into the courts system so that victims will finally have a place in the system , will have their rights protected , and will have access to the care and treatment they require when they engage in the rehabilitation their souls require after being victimized . 
it is a question of getting this industry up and running , or better yet of getting it afloat . 
honourable senators , I am sure that the Attorney General is now reviewing all of the options possible in terms of response . 
we shared it with the media . 
appendix C 6 lists those Nisga ' a whose current band council have allocated housing . 
i have all the confidence in Mr. Mackenzie . 
further , clause 12 gives the privacy commissioner the power to investigate all complaints including a complaint that an organization is not following a recommended business practice . 
Mr. Mike Scott 
i do not know about the critic . 
Mr. Wiebe passed away in July after a tough battle with cancer . 
that Bill C - 6 be amended by deleting Clause 60 . 
may their life after the Senate be considerably richer and more entertaining then they can possibly imagine now . 
through these links CIHR will help provinces acquire the evidence they need to make important decisions about how best to deliver health services to their residents . 
it might be difficult if this is the game we are going to be subjected to all afternoon . 
questions of Privilege 
although the emphasis is on preventive measures , various remedies , including penalties , are provided for in the labour code for violations of standards . 
nuclear WEAPONS 
Mr. Speaker , we have learned that the American government has backed away from its intention to send plutonium to Canada for use as fuel in a Canadian reactor . 
it has mismanaged billions in programs that should be helping the unemployed , not the Liberal Party . 
obviously when I go out on the international scene I do not recommend that the Canadian system be emulated where it comes to the appointment of returning officers . 
Mr. Speaker , I think all of us in this place understand that there is a drug problem in prisons , but there are far more suitable places to do that research . 
in Bill C - 9 itself , the Parliament of Canada has set the worst possible example since the final agreement and related instruments , though they are to be separately published , are not annexed to the bill itself . 
i would like to speak at length about the patronage aspect of the bill but , in many ways , it is actually other areas of the bill that have come to overshadow this section . 
may I ask the honourable senator to what alternatives she refers ? 
an hon. member : 
nevertheless , the Prime Minister has made it clear that he intends to remain at the helm . 
that is a direct version of the compensation in sections 33 , 34 and 35 . 
- it would be imprudent of the Chair to project the question of police files beyond the circumstances or conditions raised by the ... member and beyond the particular circumstances alluded to by the minister in his reply . 
air TRANSPORTATION 
* * * 
Mr. Rahim Jaffer ( Edmonton - Strathcona , Ref. ) : 
for Quebec , Ontario and British Columbia alone , the costs related to the consumption of drugs are estimated at some $ 4 billion . 
i will quote from its letter : 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron : 
notice of Motion to Authorize Committee to Extend Date of Final Report onStudy of Matters Related to Mandate 
they went bankrupt , so I would like to ask , in what way is spending 12 million irretrievable dollars such a great bargain for Canadian taxpayers ? 
we need an approach that will bring together ethicists , scientists , attorneys , politicians , physicians , nurses , administrators , religious leaders and others able to contribute to the construction of a comprehensive approach . 
i will talk about the process but I find it sad the way some of these parties are going on about this important Nisga ' a debate . 
they do not realize or choose not to realize that the 400,000 - odd aboriginal Canadians who live on reserves in Canada today are all individuals . 
honourable senators , we will be dealing with it when we come to Senator Oliver ' s motion . 
i know that hon. members will want to be very careful in the choice of words they use . 
the opinion of the minister at this point is that the existing regulations will enable us to deal appropriately with this particular situation . 
we see how much individual producers have used the programs such as the net income stabilization account . 
Mr. Speaker , yesterday , five self - proclaimed skinheads , convicted in the murder of Sikh Temple caretaker Nirmal Singh Gill , were given prison sentences of 15 to 18 years . 
if the auditor general was correct and they do collapse , it will make the cod prices look like a drop in the bucket . 
they say that something has to be done . 
Mr. Speaker , the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs is refusing to talk about the downside of the referendum . 
i understand we have had quite a morning . 
to her son and his wife , her three grandchildren and her many friends , especially those at Regina Towers , we extend our sincere sympathies on the death of Alice Taylor . 
although I will fight against any form of discrimination whether it is on the basis of race , sex , religion or other , I do not believe homosexuals should be treated as families . 
Mr. John Solomon : 
before proceeding to the next motion I would again like to ask members to remain in their seats on both sides of the House during the vote . 
yeas 
we as parliamentarians must recognize the problems of the urban aboriginal and begin to develop ways they can be included in governance structures . 
i declare Motion No. 256 lost . 
some of us might last a little longer . 
there are vast areas for improvement that the minister could act on immediately . 
is there unanimous consent ? 
they ask that parliament enact Bill C - 225 , an act to amend the Marriage Act and the Interpretation Act so as to define in statute that a marriage can only be entered into between a single male and a single female . 
this is a shameful abdication of his duty in a vital part of Canada ' s infrastructure . 
more than that , I think we should damn those who do not sit up at night not damning those who do not damn this agreement . 
long gone are the days when we had initiatives in terms of privatization , deregulation and free trade . 
the next question is on Motion No. 347 . 
clause 6 of this bill provides for the Minister of Health to establish national guidelines , in consultation with provincial authorities and associations , for the withholding and withdrawal of life - sustaining medical treatment , for the controlling of pain , and for palliative care . 
Mr. Maurizio Bevilacqua 
some of them were not very pretty . 
Mr. Greg Thompson ( New Brunswick Southwest , PC ) : 
in another , 94 % said not to vote for the bill . 
this is why we were in favour of the free trade in 1988 , why we were in favour of NAFTA in 1992 and why we were in favour of the Free Trade Area of the Americas until 2005 , because we will take up the challenge to excel . 
hon. W . David Angus : 
we are pretty much alike when it comes to that type of thing . 
therefore , we will vote against these amendments . 
Mr. Hec Clouthier 
they have answered questions fully and freely . 
if we are going to eliminate the dangers and hazards of nuclear proliferation then we all must play a part . 
madam Speaker , because I come from an area that has a ranching industry and an orchard industry natural resources are very important to our area . 
however , government members do not . 
Adam is the father of three boys . 
we get a list of the new citizens in our ridings . 
i fully support the bill and hope that it has speedy passage through the House . 
the Indonesian National Assembly has ratified the results of the August 30 ballot in East Timor . 
hon. No ë l A . Kinsella ( Deputy Leader of the Opposition ) : 
delayed Answer to Oral Question 
he was brought up in a home where one does the right thing because it is the right thing to do , not because we weigh the risk to our own person . 
for example , from 1991 to 1997 there has been approximately a 25 % decline in youth crime in our society . 
recently I attended the funeral of Rev. Donald Skier and felt the amazing music , heard the heartfelt stories and saw again how they are proud and unique , and they have survived . 
therefore , I think it would be very difficult for the federal government to pass legislation dealing exclusively with the protection of personal information . 
however , others who saw the article would interpret it in the wrong way . 
i am very pleased to see that the concept has moved beyond the point of just studying it and that legislation has now been brought forward in the form of Bill C - 13 . 
bill C - 20 ensures that if Canadians are asked if they want their province to separate from Canada it is through a question they can understand clearly . 
there are some solutions in order to decrease taxes . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. Speaker , there are two things here . 
i know there are many factors , but which one would the member pick as being the greatest influence that would make children of that age commit a random crime ? 
Mr. Inky Mark 
hon. Herb Gray ( Deputy Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
the government has taken that position . 
it constitutes the last natural corridor in the greater Toronto area and hosts many rare species of plants and animals . 
it is important that the efforts made by parliament to pass legislation that is suited to the reality faced by police match the efforts made by police in the field to uncover criminal organizations . 
in the Constitution - which I look at far more often than the little catechism book my mother left to me - it is stated that all commercial activity is a provincial jurisdiction . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron : 
we , as Canadians , pride ourselves on being the best country in the world in which to live , and all the while my people , the M é tis , the First Nations and the Inuit , suffer such bigotry and torture . 
there is nothing in the bill that says it will be located in Prince Edward Island . 
in fact the chairman of the defence committee , a Liberal member , is also on record as supporting a $ 2 billion increase in the defence budget . 
the minister denied prairie farmers that opportunity on that occasion and in their disappointment and frustration some of them reacted . 
that means that all pensioners whose interest income is not enough for them to pay income tax , all students who earn a little over the summer , all those on social assistance and the unemployed who still believe enough in politics to give $ 20 to my colleague from Frontenac - M é gantic will be penalized because they will never be compensated by the federal government in the form of a tax credit . 
they should not just destroy it . 
white fishers were not used to seeing other people allowed to enter their market , their fishery . 
honourable senators , I should like to begin today by thanking my predecessor , my friend and fellow Nova Scotian , Senator Graham , for his excellent leadership in this chamber over the past two years . 
agreed . 
spread over 10 to 12 years , that would restore our highway system , our bridges and our main transportation system to the level it should be as identified by the auditor general . 
it will also bring in many more middle class families that have not been able to access the Canada child tax benefit . 
madam Speaker , I listened with great interest to my colleague from the South Shore give a rather compelling , thought - provoking dissertation on this particular treaty , but one thing struck me very clearly . 
Canadians recognize that their quality of life depends in part on the quality of life of their neighbours - those who share this planet with us . 
these are all important issues . 
however , I point out that these are largely preventable deaths due to air pollution and we fully intend over the next decade to cut that number in half . 
the Indian Act is a bleak part of Canadian history . 
members 
on behalf of my caucus colleagues and parliamentarians , I can say that if WestJet chooses Ottawa we may see a lot more of each other as we go west or east on WestJet . 
madam Speaker , just like all my other colleagues , I am pleased to speak to Bill C - 13 , an act to establish the Canadian Institutes of Health Research , to repeal the Medical Research Council Act and to make consequential amendments to other Acts . 
why is the minister releasing bogus refugees here on Canadian soil ? 
i will therefore give hon. members a short course in international law . 
we are , and I have learned this myself in my law courses , a province , a country - soon , let us hope - with a civil law tradition . 
nays 
the solution is therefore for all of us to stay together in Canada . 
i know I cannot use props , but I was trying to guess how thick the books were . 
motion No. 101 negatived 
it implies a more explicit and respectful relationship between the two levels of government and indicates that the Government of Canada is accepting the same responsibilities as are other property owners . 
the public was not consulted prior to the signing of the Nisga ' a agreement in principle on February 16 , 1996 in any meaningful way . 
hon. St é phane Dion ( President of the Queen ' s Privy Council for Canada and Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs , Lib . ) : 
( division 512 ) 
Quebec - Possible Conditions of Referendum - Involvement of Other Provinces 
i am extremely hesitant to move away from tradition . 
natural RESOURCES 
which criteria will be used to choose the people who will create the institutes ? 
Mr. Speaker , all the documents were made public , and the auditors found 37 cases that warranted additional study . 
farm Crisis in Manitoba and Saskatchewan - Request for Visit by Prime Minister 
similarly , this bill bans the publication of new election surveys during the last 24 hours of the election campaign . 
forty - six percent of all murders are committed with handguns despite a 65 year old handgun registry . 
when political elites like these dreamed up aboriginal self - government in the Charlottetown accord , it was defeated by a majority of Canadians , including a majority of grassroots aboriginals . 
activities in this sector accounted for 2.9 % of the GDP . 
if they are not on good terms I will gladly act as an intermediary to ensure that they can speak to each other . 
in fact , for the five completed projects reviewed by the auditors , Exhibit 31.4 of the Auditor General ' s report specifically indicates that the Department had approved substantive estimates for a total of $ 60.2 million but that it actually delivered the projects for a total of $ 59.6 million . 
Canadians are entitled to that information . 
the Liberal government has put up $ 111 million for pension and severance packages , but only 340 miners will qualify for pensions and 650 for severance . 
honourable senators , before adjourning the debate in the name of one of my colleagues , Senator Cools , in a most important and interesting address this afternoon , raised a number of questions . 
finally , what is the government ' s response ? 
after the committee hearings are completed , there will be further debate in the House at report stage and third reading , as well as in the other place . 
i would actually submit that clause 3 of the bill is a hollow clause . 
he is the director of public health in Montreal . 
notice of Inquiry 
the net result is that information of all kinds is flowing across the country and , indeed , around the globe more quickly and more freely today than ever before . 
one project could be carried out , and it is quite simple . 
the separatist leaders ' campaign of smoke and mirrors worked very effectively . 
in fact , we have zero tolerance policy when it comes to foreign nationals who commit serious crimes in Canada . 
we all know , certainly those of us from Cape Breton , the Reform position with regard to Devco . 
that is extraordinary . 
how many referendums shall we have ? 
the Liberals eliminated the Crow benefit and they supported the CPR in getting rid of all of the very high profit centres . 
i have a bit of news for them . 
we stand before a new century confident in the promise of Canada for our children and grandchildren . 
my friend over there is denying reality . 
senator Taylor : 
we have consulted with the provinces and will continue to do so . 
the Speaker : 
in R . v. Matwiy ( 1996 ) , 105 C . C . C . ( 3 d ) 251 , a decision of the Alberta Court of Appeal involving an offender who had committed a home invasion robbery , the Court stated that " offences which strike at the right of members of the public to the security of their own homes and to freedom from intrusion therein , must be treated with the utmost seriousness . " 
however , honourable senators , there are other realities in our nation that demand our attention . 
3 . Page 5 : add after line 27 on page 5 the following : 
why is it bent on using a Canadian tourism commission to do so ? 
a negative vote on Motion No. 90 requires the question to be put on Motion No. 91 . 
i am sure the hon. member for Wentworth - Burlington , who has a lot of experience , would like to debate the bill before the House . 
Mr. Speaker , let me take this opportunity to recognize and thank the members of the subcommittee of the standing committee for the work that they have done in bringing all government departments together to appreciate the role that they can play in helping to reflect the needs of Canadians with disabilities in our policies and in our services . 
the arrests of persons on religious grounds is reported without any explanation other than " they broke the Chinese law , " and it is widely perceived by Canadians as a violation of religious freedom and of human rights . 
CANADIAN FORCES SUPPLY DEPOT 
the NDP will not protest the bill because many of its members , in their hearts , are still committed to socialist economics . 
the federal government should demonstrate both vision and political will in this area . 
i am trying to represent that voice while appreciating the concerns of others . 
it is safe . 
we would have had a recession , because the domestic market was in a slump . 
income Tax Conventions Implementation Bill , 1999 
the next question is on Motion No. 445 . 
the Canadian public has given its support to the Canadian armed forces in the missions we operate in around the world . 
the hon. member for Beauharnois - Salaberry . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
i have a copy in my hand of a letter signed by the department of Indian affairs confirming that deadline . 
motion agreed to . 
Dr. Keon is a treasure to us in Canada . 
although there have been a few accommodations , and some important amendments were made to the bill , it is nevertheless a fact that fundamental changes could not be made because the government had no intention of making them . 
i have two other matters , honourable senators , to which I wish to speak . 
Mr. Bob Kilger : 
the position I put forward in committee was that 12 was a sensible number as opposed to two , which most people would think was a bit low . 
honourable senators , pursuant to rule 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour to table the first report of the Special Senate Committee on the Cape Breton Development Corporation , which report deals with the expenses incurred by the committee during the First Session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . 
eighth Annual Meeting - Notice of Inquiry 
the Speaker : 
the next question is on Motion No. 341 . 
perhaps because they do not listen to Quebecers . 
madam Speaker , I move that the first report of the Standing Joint Committee on the Scrutiny of Regulations be concurred in . 
the ROYAL ASSENT 
municipal GRANTS ACT 
reviewing Canada ' s Foreign Policy 
Claude Picher wrote this morning " When the former Czechoslovakia was divided , all observers felt that the Czech republic would be far better off than the Slovak . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
they needed 15 . That is shameful . 
we must also think about the contribution of Grace . 
( division 496 ) 
* * * 
senator Stewart , I have read some of your books . 
Mr. Preston Manning ( Leader of the Opposition , Ref. ) : 
the first objective , I am pleased to hear , if this park is created , would contribute to the protection of biodiversity . 
Mr. Howard Hilstrom : 
it substantiates our right to vote and it virtually removes the possibility of fraud . 
that is why we are here . 
more importantly , as researchers , in their hearts they truly believe they can do more for humanity by working in an environment where they have the tools which enable them to be the best they can be . 
he delivers the mail and when election campaigns happen , he delivers pamphlets . 
here we are in the high forum of debate and democracy , and as soon as we begin it , because our electors have asked for it - 301 members have been elected to this House to speak on behalf of the voters - the Liberal government has the annoying habit of trotting out a gag order immediately , a time allocation order , and put an end to debate . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
aboriginal Governance 
nays 
this is not the first time . 
members 
in our view that is vague and potentially dangerous phrasing . 
i believe the last programs were signed by the Conservatives . 
paired 
it is how elections are decided . 
i tell my customers " You can usually get in touch with me between the hours of such and such '' . 
in adopting the clarity bill , however , the Senate would be placing a serious constraint on the government ' s prerogative ; a constraint that no government could subsequently remove without the express consent of the Senate through the adoption of new legislation . 
at that time it was dubbed the gay plague , a figure of speech but a very evocative one , because it was so closely associated with a specific group . 
i am sure that all members of the House would agree that our clerks today are doing a terrific job . 
where were our friends in the Tory party in 1992 ? 
as I stated , he is a man who got his start in politics at the municipal level . 
he is known as Hammy down there . 
a negative vote on Motion No. 102 requires the question to be put on Motion No. 103 . 
to convince my colleagues across the way of the capital importance of this document , I will read a brief excerpt from it . 
committee Authorized to Permit Electronic Coverage 
Mr. Speaker , this is the first of three bills I will be introducing today . 
i want to thank you , Mr. Speaker , for indicating that . 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
the Speaker : 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Dick Proctor ( Palliser , NDP ) : 
No. 
maybe that should happen . 
it is one of the issues that troubled me as I reviewed the evidence of the committee after the hearings . 
bill to Amend - Second Reading - Order Stands 
furthermore , Bill C - 214 adversely affects Canadian foreign policy . 
having resided in the west for many years , I once again ask out of the billion and so dollars that are being spent on this matter what is in it for the west and for the young people who reside in Vancouver , Winnipeg , Saskatoon , Regina and all those other places . 
honourable senators , I am aware of the situation of which the honourable senator speaks . 
that , in accordance with subsection 53 ( 3 ) of the Act to extend the present laws of Canada that protect the privacy of individuals and that provide individuals with a right of access to personal information about themselves , Chapter P - 21 of the Revised Statutes of Canada 1985 , the Senate approve the reappointment of Bruce Phillips as Privacy Commissioner for a term of four months , effective May 1 , 2000 . 
the will of Albertans has been expressed , democracy has been denied . 
reports have appeared in the media in recent weeks regarding some of these prosecutions , notably in the provinces of Quebec , Manitoba and Alberta . 
hon. Gerald J . Comeau : 
the Deputy Speaker : 
i think it is odd that such a centrally important institution is effectively not open to the public . 
in response to an industry request on January 13 of this year , the Government of Canada made a new commitment of up to $ 1 billion for the next two years to design a new disaster program to assist those producers most in need . 
this is an item in which there is no difficulty for any member of our committee . 
a child ' s early years are critical to his long - term health and well - being . 
agreed . 
i will take this opportunity to express the wish that , despite the somewhat singular character of the legislative process in which we are currently engaged in order to pass bill C - 2 , the government will truly pay attention to the concerns expressed by the witnesses appearing before the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs , that it will be open to proposed amendments it might receive from the various parties in this House , and that it will be prepared to truly make this process , this operation to revise the federal election legislation , a process devoted to truly democratizing the electoral system in Canada . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe 
it probably refers to agriculture when using those terms . 
it is the same in any area of seasonal employment . 
instead they increase the number of young people who ultimately end up running afoul of the law . 
motion agreed to . 
genetically MODIFIED FOODS 
the Liberal member from St. Paul ' s was quoted in the Hamilton spectator as saying : " We want something that is a legacy '' . 
indeed , an argument can be made that there are relationships which should have benefits extended to them . 
this is the example of the co - operation the B.C. politicians feel this federal government gives them . 
some of the worst environmental policies and disasters existed in closed economies before the end of the cold war in eastern Europe . 
committee Authorized to Extend Date of Final Report on Study of Changing Mandate of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
members 
they have come forward with some ad hoc funding but no plan to get that assistance to the producers , especially the farmers who are beginning to prepare for spring seeding . 
why should the industry respect anything that comes out of the minister ' s mouth when he continues to show his total ineptitude in handling the situation ? 
paired 
motion No. 390 negatived 
can he provide a clear and straight answer to this question ? 
it is extraordinary in the modern age that a location in southern Ontario , close to the city of Peterborough , has telephone poles but has never had telephones . 
members 
all those opposed will please say nay . 
it will keep kids in school longer . 
they expressed their desire for change . 
Mr. Speaker , the minister has just said that this a great day for swindlers , crooks , thieves and con artists . 
it is totally dominated by the federal government . 
yeas 
i pointed out that the Liberal government ' s own 1994 defence white paper , which is the official government policy , promised that the Sea King would be replaced prior to the year 2000 . 
Mr. Speaker , to speed up the process , I believe that , should you ask , you would find unanimous consent to say that the questions on all the votable motions before us are deemed to have been put and the recorded division deferred until tonight . 
nearly 60 % of unemployed workers , youth and women in particular , do not qualify . 
Mr. Speaker , bogus refugees have gone missing . 
the hon. member for Portneuf . 
jobs are being created , investment dollars are pouring in and real estate prices are climbing . 
clearly , the Nisga ' a treaty does not change the Canadian constitution . 
in addition , Mr. Shortliffe noted in his report on municipal restructuring that it would be up to the council of the municipality of Ottawa to determine the extent and nature of services to be made available in the country ' s two official languages . 
it will be a setback , unfortunately , but only a temporary setback . 
is there unanimous consent to extend the hon. member for Elk Island ' s time by an additional 10 minutes ? 
edited HANSARD * NUMBER 036 a 
Mr. Yvon Charbonneau ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Health , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I will try it again . 
in addition , a company in Newfoundland has developed a sensitive skin which was originally developed for space robotic manipulators and is now being applied to artificial limbs . 
the government really does not know what to do . 
it is often flowery with little substance , and that is understood . 
social HOUSING 
and what was the sense in all this ? 
members 
address in Reply - Termination of Debate on Eighth Sitting Day - Notice of Motion 
i think it owns about 34 % or 35 % today . 
the next question is on Motion No. 76 . 
what did we have to do ? 
NUNAVUT LEGISLATURE 
to them the state should decide what your job is worth and which job should be paid the same as other jobs . 
it applies only where the intent is to alleviate the physical pain of the patient . 
Mr. Speaker , as the member and all members of this House know , I cannot comment on individual cases because of the individuals ' right to privacy in the legislation which gives them that protection . 
the Speaker : 
how could an elected majority in Quebec foster confusion , when here a very slight majority fosters nothing but clarity , because the eminent professor has come up with an idea ? 
we cannot go on like this . 
since he has not been a senator himself , we might ask what he judges or how he judges how one gets into the Senate ? 
that Vote 5 a in the amount of $ 5,266,124 , under ENVIRONMENT - Capital expenditures , in the Supplementary Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2000 , be concurred in . 
in that period , tuition fees have more than doubled , a clear indication that a much higher proportion of the cost of university is borne by the students . 
Mr. Paul Szabo 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
he speaks with zest and spirit , as we saw this afternoon . 
we on this side of the House know that the federal government can play a role to ensure where we need to help provide opportunities for men and women who do not have the opportunity for the dignity of jobs that they can be funded . 
it would be unwise to indicate that position at this time . 
in essence , Senator P é pin showed me her text . 
Mr. Peter MacKay ( Pictou - Antigonish - Guysborough , PC ) : 
Mr. Pierre Brien : 
what will the federal government be doing to support this process ? 
the municipalities need to be our partners . 
the Speaker : 
i am pleased to support this aspect of the bill , but believe that the advantages and disadvantages need to be accounted for in the regulations . 
8 th day of resuming debate ) . 
members 
i believe that privacy is inherent to the dignity of the individual . 
not far from me is the hon. member for Louis - H é bert , who has a technology park in her riding . 
Mr. Gar Knutson ( Parliamentary Secretary to Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , it was as early as October 1997 that the Corbeil matter sounded the alarm on dubious project management practices at Human Resources Development Canada . 
hon. W . David Angus : 
Mr. Greg Thompson 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Reed Elley 
i understand that my good friend Guy Chevrette - 
* * * 
immigration ACT 
it is not about teaching democracy . 
consequences of European Monetary Union 
Mr. Scott Brison 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
this should have be mentioned in the report . 
let him heckle the Minister of Industry . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 345 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
members 
that would help . 
that is the life in Canada we are talking about . 
* * * 
the issue of corporate responsibility is a shifting paradigm . 
if we look at the election results for Canada , federally and provincially we find that in the last 30 years the turnout has plummeted in the country . 
at document 21 , in responding to question 36 , CSIS claims that videotapes were passed to the plaintiff in response to a request from him . 
in Northern Ontario , an intensified need has been placed on health related matters of late , especially in regard to training doctors and health care professionals for the north . 
the hon. member for Kootenay - Columbia has the floor with one minute remaining in his time . 
an excellent politician , this party leader was clever enough to see that a unitarian government would have never brought in the French Canadians . 
human Resources Development 
Mr. Speaker , for seven days now , the member has been making wide - ranging and unfounded allegations , but he does not have the courage to repeat these allegations outside the House . 
what I discovered a week ago warrants a statement rather than a question and , in fact , a statement of outrage . 
progress is being made . 
this government , which prides itself on seeking clarity , must recognize that democrats want to be heard on this bill . 
members 
concurrence IN VOTE 50 A - INDIAN AFFAIRS AND NORTHERN DEVELOPMENT 
members 
Quebec is a different society , and we are also different in our understanding of the financing of political parties . 
the minister mentioned the homeless in his answer . 
on this side of the House we believe in working in communities , with communities in partnership to address the root cause of crime . 
state of Domestic and International Financial System 
when it was clearly demonstrated that had no relevance , he switched horses and decided to base his comments on the 1760 treaty . 
this is an area where a lot of contracts are handed out . 
they would not make it public . 
i have the impression that it wants to maintain the existing provisions . 
with Bill C - 23 , in order to determine eligibility to receive this tax credit , same sex couples will now declare the income of their common law partners . 
then there was Terrace , Vancouver , Victoria and Smithers . 
members 
the minister therefore cannot seriously maintain that she knew nothing of this practice . 
Mr. Speaker , the purpose of this enactment is to protect persons accused of a crime and their families from the effect of media reports that cause public suspicion , speculation and outrage before guilt has been established . 
in our finance committee hearings a number of presenters called the excessive EI premiums a breach of trust . 
in a federal system with centralizing tendencies , these cuts were just one more step on the road to concentrating power in the hands of the federal government . 
in my riding of Dauphin - Swan River , efforts by the Coats for Kids Campaign through the Dauphin Friendship Centre help assist children in need . 
hon. Mabel M. DeWare : 
it is a very interesting point . 
the Late Laurence Decore 
Mr. Myron Thompson 
in a century , indeed in a millennium , that has seen so much bloodshed over differences of faith , race and nationality , perhaps that is a good thing . 
there was only one catch and that was Catch - 22 , which specified that a concern for one ' s own safety in the face of dangers that were real and immediate was the process of a rational mind . 
surely the issue of drugs in prisons and the proliferation of drug use and its terrible social consequences are very much priority issues . 
the hon. member on this , as in so many other matters , is wrong , wrong , wrong . 
that is not clarifying the situation . 
it is not a point of order . 
this is a huge initiative taken by this House that is historic in nature on which four out of the five political parties agree . 
Mr. Jim Abbott ( Kootenay - Columbia , Ref. ) : 
audiovisual PRODUCTIONS 
the report ' s most striking finding is that the dioxin commonly found in food is enough to harm children ' s growth and development . 
i declare Motion No. 304 defeated . 
as for exempting information on individuals that is collected for journalistic purposes , the explanation of why this exemption is included is that , if we do not include the exemption , should this bill become law it would be subject to a likely successful challenge under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms based on the right to self - expression , the freedom of the press . 
first Reading 
while I am not very experienced , I know that we cannot mention absent members in the House , but we can present members . 
members 
the Quebec culture was flourishing like never before . 
setting aside any other priorities it might have for these surpluses , could the Government of Canada not just make a significant transfer of funds , outright and directly , to the provincial governments so that they can deal with the extremely pressing needs of health care ? 
on September 30 I received the results of the information commissioner ' s inquiry . 
the federalism principle , in conjunction with the democratic principle , dictates that the clear repudiation of the existing constitutional order and the clear expression of the desire to pursue secession by the population of a province would give rise to a reciprocal obligation on all parties to Confederation to negotiate constitutional changes to respond to that desire . 
however , this right of referendum was not extended to the people of British Columbia . 
he is planning a $ 47 billion shopping spree based on a projected surplus that could , might , may reach $ 90 billion . 
Mr. Speaker , I am terribly saddened by the deaths of Prime Minister Sarkisian , the Speaker of the Armenian parliament , Speaker Demirchian , and other members of the Armenian government at the hands of terrorist gunmen on October 27 , 1999 . We must all condemn this cowardly attack on fellow parliamentarians who were gunned down while they conducted their nation ' s democratic business in the Armenian parliament . 
will the NDP support that ? 
honourable senators , I was not party to any discussions that the Minister of Human Resources Development may have had , but I can say that the Prime Minister has indicated in a very public way his concern on this issue . 
you can ' t get much more basic than that , " said Donald Savoie , a political scientist at the Universit é de Moncton . 
hon. St é phane Dion 
members 
i would like to thank our fisheries critic , the member for St. John ' s West , and our House leader , the member for Pictou - Antigonish - Guysborough , for tabling this debate and bringing it to the floor of the House of Commons . 
Mr. Speaker , I apologize , I have to parenthesize . 
Mr. Louis Plamondon ( Bas - Richelieu - Nicolet - B é cancour , BQ ) : 
we should not make free trade available to everyone , and say thank you very much . 
it is unusual that persons belonging to the party of that name in this place have so little in common with the Liberals of British Columbia . 
the Fraser Institute agrees with the Caledon Institute in this case . 
i agree that the wording leads to some confusion . 
honourable senators , I should like to thank Senator Corbin for his particular question . 
since then , particularly in recent weeks , we have seen developments with respect to the commercial sale of human eggs , et cetera . 
hon. Allan Rock ( Minister of Health , Lib . ) : 
the big flaw in the Reform position is that if the Prime Minister appointed somebody , that person would be there until age 75 . 
we know of a similar situation . 
( division 282 ) 
honourable senators , I hardly need say that I have listened most carefully to the speech of Senator Lynch - Staunton . 
it is not true that Canadians do not know what is going on in this country . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 218 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
i do not think there is any debate on that . 
Mr. Paul Bonwick : 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
Toponomy Commission of Quebec 
it took me about four days by car as compared to his four to six weeks to drive his combine down here . 
he put me in touch with all his contacts , in British Columbia , Alberta and even in provinces that are a little less receptive . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
that is precisely why I have called for an RCMP investigation . 
i am saying that very sincerely . 
i would further ask whether the member for Pictou - Antigonish - Guysborough has given any thought to the responsibilities of federal and provincial labour inspectors . 
one might ask , why did a federal judge with evidence from the RCMP and worldwide police organizations of a well - known triad leader allow that man to stay in Canada ? 
if this is not blatant patronage , what is it ? 
* * * 
there is the one he sent for the Dunrite Blasting company , the one for Trans - Atlantic Transport , the one that he sent for Scotia Aqua Farms , the one that he sent for the amusement park , the hair studio , Caren ' s Shear Magic Hair Design , and the one for Fitness Xpress , but Mr. Speaker , I did not quote from those documents . 
i would like to focus on a particular point . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 20 , be amended by deleting lines 27 to 29 on page 7 . 
the banks have been fairly lenient with farmers in trying to help them out a little . 
the Bloc Quebecois position is very clear as far as funding is concerned . 
we could further reduce the rate from 26 % to 21 % . 
there will be no assistance and you can enjoy the same rights and privileges as everyone else '' ? 
Mr. Bernard Bigras ( Rosemont , BQ ) : 
we all know where unilateral decisions would lead us . 
Mr. Scott Brison ( Kings - Hants , PC ) : 
is this what we are bringing forth with this legislation ? 
anyone who has travelled to Cape Breton knows that it is an absolute slam dunk . 
remember , this is the first of 60 such agreements . 
bill C - 247 is a private members ' bill developed , advanced and sponsored in the House of Commons by Albina Guarnieri , the Liberal Member of Parliament from Mississauga East , near Toronto . 
rural people are smart . 
Mrs. Michelle Dockrill 
if they have a grievance about the way property tax values were assessed , their only avenue of recourse is to a group of the minister ' s own appointees . 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
the process involves an annual review of long term care facilities . 
the jig is up . 
i stand here today not just as the member of parliament for Burnaby - Douglas , not just as a gay man , but also on behalf of my colleagues to say that we recognize and salute the government for this important contribution toward full equality . 
but I would just like to hear the member opposite recognize the contribution made by the member mentioned . 
when he spoke , and he spoke very eloquently , he thanked the many people of the great riding of Renfrew - Nipissing - Pembroke , in the upper Ottawa valley , for everything they have done in the last 150 years to make Canada the greatest country in the world in which to live . 
the next question is on Motion No. 304 . 
if authorized by the individual , the RCMP may disclose the information to the organization that requested the verification . 
is it clear enough ? 
Mr. Darrel Stinson 
why should other Canadians be taxed to feed this minister ' s political ego ? 
volume 138 , Issue 42 
each of these realms promotes individual development . 
hon. Senators : 
during the cruise a fatality occurred in the waters off Newfoundland . 
however , when the members of parliament rail against that , they forget to mention that it very clearly states in the agreement that those rights and privileges have to be as good or exceed existing provincial regulations . 
he has proven what I said and have suspected ; that is , that the intent of the Reform Party is not to get the head of a minister . 
in extreme circumstances , the government has to examine a range of measures including development assistance and other instruments of foreign policy . 
some hon. members : 
hon. Senators : 
Mr. Reg Alcock ( Parliamentary Secretary to President of the Queen ' s Privy Council for Canada and Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs , Lib . ) : 
some say the last thing that remains is the full blown establishment of homosexual marriage in Canada as a normative practice . 
Mr. Paul Cr ê te 
if we look at the overall summary statement at the beginning of the bill , one would almost get the impression that this is summum bonum , the absolute best thing that could ever have happened to the youth justice system . 
these are the immediate consequences of the situation in which InterCanadian airlines finds itself . 
call in the members . 
this government will be perpetuated along with those who support it . 
i declare Motion No. 443 lost . 
members 
( division 646 ) 
hon. Herb Gray ( Deputy Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
Ms. Libby Davies ( Vancouver East , NDP ) : 
i would argue that the government is lacking in its vision in many areas . 
we are embarrassed internationally because of this . 
parliament , on this entire issue , will have the last word . 
most of the controversy , if I might call it that , relates to Part 1 , the so - called privacy provisions . 
it is this government that is doing it , not the opposition , but that is another topic I did not talk to . 
i ask all honourable senators to give Bill C - 247 appropriate consideration and study . 
at this time there are a couple of minutes left in Private Members ' Business , so let us please return to Private Members ' Business . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
commodity prices , costs , world markets , the economy , and the weather will always see ups and downs , sometimes in the extremes . 
some hon. members : 
bill C - 23 reflects the Government of Canada ' s commitment to ensure that federal policies , social programs and laws reflect societal values and realities . 
it is a serfdom . 
decision making must be established , as well as procedures for appeal or review of those laws or decisions . 
division No. 203 
some $ 199.4 million is for the Treasury Board Secretariat to distribute funds to departments and agencies to compensate them for the impact of the collective bargaining agreements concluded to date , as well as other related adjustments . 
in Quebec , since the late 1970 s , thanks to a sovereignist government , financing is really financing by the people . 
* * * 
nays 
whether the figure is $ 1 billion or $ 1.5 billion , this is what we should do to meet that . 
at the conclusion of the debate , a result is reached that is absent of class distinction or arbitrary decisions by a select few , most notably in the Prime Minister ' s office . 
the purpose of section 27 is , of course , to show that while Canada is a bilingual country at the federal level and in certain provinces , it inherited a specific multicultural heritage that must be taken into account . 
Mr. Rob Anders ( Calgary West , Ref. ) : 
so why doesn ' t the Law get it ? 
therefore subclause 18 ( 1 ) as presently drafted is not necessary since Bill C - 6 already provides the privacy commissioner with the tools needed to ensure the compliance of schedule 1 . 
it is distressing . 
senator Ray Perrault and I have urged Dan not to risk his life , but he is adamant that , until someone pays attention , he will not eat . 
he did recognize that the original statement he made was based on inaccurate information . 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
however , I would have no objection to setting aside a separate month even though we have only 12 months and , as has been mentioned , every month is an awareness month for more than one cause at this stage . 
i do not believe in special legal status for anyone , and most British Columbians never have . 
Nova Scotia - Possibility of Cape Breton Becoming a Province 
i cannot close this debate without thinking again of my friend and my husband ' s best friend , Phillip Borsos , the gifted filmmaker , who as a passionate Canadian insisted on excellence and would never settle for less . 
the purpose of palliative care is to address not just the physical needs , but also the psychological , social , cultural , emotional and spiritual needs of individuals and their families . 
some hon. members : 
however , I would make the observation that if we continue with this slow , modest and methodical incremental change , it will take another 100 years for women to reach equity in this place . 
madam Speaker , it is indeed my pleasure to speak on Bill C - 4 which implements an agreement that Canada signed last year with the United States , Japan , Russia and 11 countries of the European Union . 
that is wonderful . 
this is why these organizations unanimously requested that Quebec be excluded from the application of the bill we are debating today so that the federal government does not impose upon them , with regard to the protection of personal information , a system that is different from the one that has been in place in Quebec for five years . 
they are now young adults , two young men and three young women . 
the main rulings and statements made by Speakers are reviewed , and the numerous customs , interpretations and precedents that apply to the House of Commons of Canada are clearly explained . 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit ( Lakeland , Ref. ) : 
these shelves will allow Canada to expand its research in the microgravity field which will aid research carried out here in areas such as osteoporosis . 
the candidate may be from Manitoba and Saskatchewan , which have a total of 28 seats . 
i also suggested that the minister had announced grants before they were approved and before the applications even existed . 
senator Boudreau : 
the Speaker : 
nobody could talk to him but everybody would know who little Johnny was . 
that victory is taking millions of dollars out of the cattle industry in this country every day . 
national DEFENCE 
the Nisga ' a people themselves will be disadvantaged by this Liberal government policy . 
they turned it down . 
this is one of the worst blows inflicted on Quebecers in the history of Canadian federalism and one of the worst threats to Quebec ' s freedom to decide its own future . 
the hon. Leader of the Opposition . 
in the U.S. , President Clinton has said that he had decided to sign the measure because farmers are facing a true emergency and cannot wait . 
the real crime perpetrated against aboriginals in Canada is legislated segregation . 
today , Canadians can look with pride on Canada ' s success . 
a GMO is a genetically modified organism . 
it is a tragedy that in this day and age the province of Quebec takes more than 50 % of the equalization payments . 
the Governor General was present at only five of them . 
what is needed to deal with this international problem is a multifaceted approach adopted by Canada and other nations in the context of an international solution . 
we need to co - operate and speak to the provincial governments . 
Mr. Maurice Godin ( Ch â teauguay , BQ ) : 
there are times when the use of force may be legitimate in the pursuit of peace ; however , unless the Security Council is restored to its preeminent position as the sole source of legitimacy on the use of force , the world is on a dangerous path to anarchy . 
this is a good change . 
hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
there are things like our geography and our relative isolation , things like distance from markets , things like the fact that we depend on natural resource based economies that are cyclical in nature . 
Mr. Darrel Stinson ( Okanagan - Shuswap , Ref. ) : 
the Speaker : 
i am secretly told by many here that I am right . 
any objections we raised were belittled . 
i understand that in the aftermath of the Westray inquiry the attorney general for Nova Scotia requested that the Minister of Justice for Canada address recommendation 73 of the Westray report and that the minister has agreed to do so . 
Mr. Speaker , I will say at the outset that you need not apologize to me for getting my point of order confused . 
personal INFORMATION PROTECTION AND ELECTRONIC DOCUMENTS ACT 
and more than five members having risen 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
it is time for the Liberals to rethink their uncritical approach to the current model of globalization . 
the information I received was for 12 months forward from the date of the budget . 
Ms. Bonnie Brown 
section 72 ( 8 ) , described as " Exception : solicitor client privilege , " states : 
taxation 
present State and Future of Aboriginal Peoples 
pursuant to order made on Tuesday , December 7 , 1999 , clauses 1 to 7 , schedules 1 and 2 , the preamble , the title , the bill and the motion that I rise and report are carried by the same division taken earlier this day on Motion No. 1 . 
social HOUSING 
companies looking to invest in Canada must be able to count on a workforce that has the education and skills that they need . 
let the Canadians of tomorrow look upon this Parliament and say , Here were men and women committed to building a stronger Canada and a better quality of life for their children and grandchildren . 
i have had occasion to go to a number of native reserves and I have had the opportunity , the privilege and the honour of twice visiting Nisga ' a territory . 
with the passage of this legislation we can write a new chapter in the evolving story of this great nation , a story of equality and respect for all which our children and grandchildren will be proud to retell . 
then if we have a thousand $ 1,000 bills , we have $ 1 million . 
what better opportunity to rectify some of the injustices of the past , to correct some of the wrongs of the past , to show compassion and to lend support where it is so badly needed than the Nisga ' a treaty , Bill C - 9 ? 
the majority decision written by Mr. Justice Binnie refers to : 
with an annual budget approved by parliament , it is imperative that all ministries , departments and crown corporations live within their allocated budget needs . 
the first part of the history of our relations is one of partnership . 
motion No. 39 
i come from a farm riding . 
as I said before the House broke on this issue , the government likes to do a lot of talking . 
the minister says that if the question is not clear , there will be no negotiation . 
madam Speaker , I am pleased to rise for the second time within half an hour , this time on Bill C - 229 . 
our committee subsequently met on November 23 and November 30 . 
can the Minister of Justice please tell the House which groups intervened in support of this important public safety measure ? 
will she recognize a result of 50 % plus one ? 
yet this is the perfect place . 
the bill deals with the process by which that assent will be given . 
* * * 
national Day of Remembrance 
as the chairman of the Progressive Conservative Senate caucus , I could always count on Senator Ghitter to bring whatever issues were before us into a clearer light . 
if members ask those questions to the members of the government party , they will say " Andr é , do not raise those points , people in the west will react negatively '' . 
what particularly galls me is that once the government saw there was a problem it went the route of promotions , public relations and media advertisements saying that it would do something . 
yea . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe ( Laurier - Sainte - Marie , BQ ) : 
Mr. Speaker , the unity debate in Canada has surfaced again with a vengeance . 
house OF COMMONS 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
we know that we need to work with , consult and include our scientific community in the work that our federal government does in the field of health . 
ethical issues are to be taken into consideration . 
motion No. 33 negatived 
but on a bill which governs elections , why and how would a governing party choose to ram a piece of legislation like that through ? 
i believe everyone in the House must be fiscally responsible . 
our Leaders for the 21 st Century 
black History Month 2000 
hon. Maria Minna ( Minister for International Cooperation , Lib . ) : 
motion No. 79 negatived 
Mr. Speaker , I will take the opportunity during this debate to discuss the legitimacy of the role of the House of Commons in setting rules that would guide the conduct of the House and of the federal government within a process that could lead to the secession of one of our federation ' s provinces . 
it is hard not to think of Shaughnessy being here today . 
who is defending Quebecers ' interests in Canada ? 
still in 1994 , he added " Ottawa ' s insistence on using the term separation in the question has no basis in law '' . 
senator Boudreau : 
project Sidewinder , a joint CSIS - RCMP venture , was launched in the mid - 1990 s to look into the influence of Chinese tycoons in Canada and their political connections . 
present State and Future of Aboriginal Peoples 
these amendments do not provide law enforcement with additional powers . 
resuming debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P . C . , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gauthier , for the third reading of Bill S - 3 , to implement an agreement , conventions and protocols between Canada and Kyrgyzstan , Lebanon , Algeria , Bulgaria , Portugal , Uzbekistan , Jordan , Japan and Luxembourg for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income . 
from my perspective it sounds a lot like EI where we have it out there but some 40 % of the people cannot access it . 
let us look at the issue put forth by the Bloc Quebecois , which concerns the 10 % limitation on ownership of Air Canada . 
immigration 
i did sort of touch on it but I also had confidence that he would rise in his place to compliment me in some fashion . 
Ms. Raymonde Folco 
i am begging the Prime Minister to step into this situation and deal with it . 
a press release was sent to our offices earlier this week . 
therefore , I wish to move the following motion in her place . 
the old north ends of Halifax and Dartmouth were devastated by a near - nuclear - level blast . 
my question is for the Minister of Transport . 
i remember the day he was elected . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
hon. John B . Stewart : 
it is mispriorization in government spending in regard to agriculture and other sectors of the Canadian economy . 
she is slow in bringing the provinces along in order to reach a consensus on what we can do for families , and children in particular . 
this seems like a harsh thing to do . 
Mr. Speaker , this week , General Baril said that the effects of repeated budget cuts and the high operational level to which its forces have been subjected in recent years are being felt . 
as Senator Simard just indicated , he asked me to read the address that he wanted to deliver in the Senate on the tabling of an extremely substantial report . 
the definition of this term would then be based solely on age , as is the case in several other pieces of legislation . 
Mr. Yves Rocheleau 
we asked her department why , in the lists provided to us by the minister , the money is under the riding of Rosemont , when it was in fact spent in the riding of Saint - Maurice . 
Ms. H é l è ne Alarie 
that is why it is so important now that there is an opportunity for them to have some work in the fishing industry we make sure that 10 years from now there are still lobster out there . 
hon. Allan Rock ( Minister of Health , Lib . ) : 
recommendations of Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples Respecting Aboriginal Governance 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
Mr. David Chatters ( Athabasca , Ref. ) : 
when we talk about criminal acts , about the treatment of criminals and about effective and realistic measures to fight this type of crime , we must put things in a comparative context . 
at the same time , however , since the fall of the Berlin Wall , over 4 million people have been killed in violent conflicts and there remain millions of refugees and internally displaced persons around the world . 
i do not think it is unreasonable to suggest that the people and communities that fall within the 55 th to 60 th parallels should have the opportunity to have their wishes expressed as part of the circumpolar global community . 
it leaves the provincial governments stuck with major administrative problems in the management of basic services , including in health . 
that tells me that with a bill such as the space agency bill , international agreements like Kyoto and the Nisga ' a agreement , the government cares little for this place and instead cares only for what it and the people in the back rooms have decided will be done for all Canadians . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
everyone knows there are papers . 
Mr. Dick Proctor 
government OF ONTARIO 
honourable senators , this is the first of three reports from the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance that will be before honourable senators in quick succession this afternoon . 
i agree that a small number of young people choose to participate in those kinds of activities , but they cause a great deal of damage and harm and are a concern to the public safety . 
there was not an opportunity for the citizens of British Columbia to take part in the process . 
taxation 
some hon. members : 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the Deputy Speaker : 
honourable senators , I am not specifically familiar with that technology but I know that from time to time over the past decades , various technologies and new potential uses for coal have come to the fore . 
let us take a look at the history . 
Ms. H é l è ne Alarie 
how does the member rationalize that statement ? 
agreed . 
Mr. Speaker , it is my pleasure , pursuant to Standing Order 36 , to present petitions on behalf of 163 voters in my riding of Nanaimo - Cowichan concerning the high level of taxation in this country . 
we will build the 21 st century together . 
* * * 
it therefore follows that , for section 8 to effectively protect an individual ' s reasonable expectation of respect for his privacy , it must produce its effect before the execution of the search or seizure and before the disclosure of the information . 
in fact we did not just pick up . 
will the minister admit that his real intention is to prevent Quebecers from expressing themselves freely and democratically and building a new country ? 
Mrs. Christiane Gagnon 
we know where it is . 
i am sorry to say that is an unacceptable message . 
MPs will then be subject to forms of blackmail by senators who are non - elected and who represent particular or private interests . 
Mr. Myron Thompson 
if Canada and the U.S. teamed up to fight European subsidies rather than the U.S. just outbidding them , we could have an impact on those subsidies which are killing our farmers . 
litigation is not the answer to solving these issues . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
we know that various other aspects of the Canada Elections Act will be challenged in court . 
we have now entered our third year of surplus budgeting and the deficit has been eliminated . 
i do not think that anyone in the House can be a more committed federalist than I am . 
it is failing farm families on the edge of bankruptcy . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore : 
fisheries and Oceans 
they believe in grassroots democracy . 
in many cases if a person agrees to testify against one of their members , they will do their best to ensure that the person does not make it to the courtroom . 
he and his wife , Mrs. Zalfa Hraoui , are the proud parents of four children , Rhea , Nouhad , Tarek and Andr é a . 
we are prepared to act when the time is right - 
there is a fable relating to these waterways . 
it is very late in the early morning and many of you have been in here for all the votes . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
it hired a number of people before Christmas and then laid them off normally , but it hired people to do a variety of other things and kept them on in the long term . 
the opponents of this race based approach recognize that we simply have no choice but to chart a new course . 
Mr. Bill Graham ( Toronto Centre - Rosedale , Lib . ) : 
where is that in a high tax policy ? 
motion No. 36 negatived 
the Inuit of Nunavik have the ability and leadership to stimulate their economic growth within Canada . 
SUDAN 
in their dissenting opinion , Justices Frank Iacobucci and Charles D . Gonthier agreed that the Swiss government was not subject to the provisions of the Charter . 
this is especially important to us as we live next door to the United States , our biggest trading partner . 
Thursday , November 25 , 1999 
how will this bill protect personal information ? 
unfortunately the amendments we are debating today will not fix all of the problems within the Municipal Grants Act and I will explain why . 
i should recall that , last Friday , I was invited by the president of the volunteers of the old Thetford Mines hospital , Lucien Roy , and Treasurer Remi Vachon to join a group of hospital volunteers for a social diner . 
there has been , on a regular basis , a generation of internal audits . 
think about that . 
order IN COUNCIL APPOINTMENTS 
some hon. members : 
this call joins the long list of democrats demanding the withdrawal of Bill C - 20 . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
employment INSURANCE 
would the solicitor general be prepared to talk with the provincial premiers , justice ministers and solicitors general across the country to put together a national police force on organized crime ? 
under these clauses , older and new workers are paid according to a flat rate , the rate for new workers being lower than the one for older workers . 
it is very important that we look at it in these two terms . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
the gentleman explained to me that this particular French rifle was now in his hands after five generations . 
the statistics are very revealing in measuring the scope of the problem of organized crime , regardless of its source . 
prayers 
visitors in the Gallery 
we should give the maintenance crews a great deal of credit for the job they do and will continue to do . 
Anne McLeod told of her sister - in - law dying in the back of a truck because there is no ambulance service for medical attention on her reserve . 
this is not how it is done . 
division No. 314 
under the new bill , as I said at the start of my speech , the genetic profiles of persons subject to the Code of Service Discipline who are found guilty of serious offences involving violence will be included in the DNA data bank . 
last July , Canada and its allies gathered in France for a memorial service . 
yea . 
my question is very simple . 
i think that is very short sighted of the government and of our country . 
Quebec , having decided to secede , never a signatory to the Constitution Act , 1982 , will nonetheless be allowed to sit on both sides of the negotiating table as its determination to leave the federation is being discussed , and with a veto at hand at all times . 
the rank and file Nisga ' a people , who this agreement will affect the most , were given a few weeks to consider this agreement before they had to vote on it in the ratification process . 
foreign AFFAIRS 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
yeas 
those who are extremely poor have a hard time obtaining the essentials , that is , food , clothing and housing . 
canada 
once again , the federal government is trying to control the right of the Quebec people to decide freely on its own future . 
i am a diabetic , and I know that there are several other members in the House with the same condition . 
i ' ll tell you right now that ' s one thing he won ' t 
i am not happy about that area of the bill . 
there are no new powers . 
it was discovered recently that Ole ' s own department purchased 32 % of those copies at a total cost to the taxpayer of $ 22,500 . 
i should also like to commend the government for committing itself to improving Canada ' s knowledge infrastructure through such things as the creation of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research , increased support to the granting councils , and greater international research collaboration by Canadian universities and institutes , although the details are , once again , pretty fuzzy . 
i believe the Gitanyow and Gitxsan have been prejudiced . 
no one can deny the need to renovate the aboriginal situation . 
what did we hear out there ? 
well , this is the treaty process . 
they wasted taxpayer money . 
senator Murray : 
hiring quotas based on race or gender imply that members of target groups are somehow inferior and therefore incapable of competing on a level playing field . 
Mr. Speaker , the Nisga ' a treaty assigns 25 % of the salmon in the Nass River to the Nisga ' a . 
( division 712 ) 
essentially , I am attempting to expose only those individuals . 
in the bill we are going to address tomorrow evening , moreover , the three measures I am referring to are the three ones being requested . 
as for my colleague ' s second question , I too wonder why we must proceed so quickly . 
many more conversations will have to take place but we are moving in the right direction . 
i have mentioned prenatal care and some of those aspects which we have been doing . 
Mr. Speaker , I am very pleased to take part in the second reading of Bill C - 13 , the Canadian Institutes of Health Research Act , to quote its short title . 
we have to resume debate . 
while there is some increased activity at this time under these programs , applications are not at a high rate across Canada . 
and the bells having rung : 
Ms. Bev Desjarlais ( Churchill , NDP ) : 
just exactly what conditions is the minister demanding of Air Canada with respect to divestiture of regional airlines , price protection for consumers , protection for regional airports , protection for discount airlines and all the things that we need in the country to protect consumers and make sure that we have a good , viable format for airline passengers to travel in the country at competitive prices ? 
it is destroying it by destroying democracy and destroying the sorts of things that all of us grew up to believe Canada was all about . 
* * * 
motion No. 402 negatived 
all this is an ill - conceived creation of the federal Liberal and provincial NDP governments . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
Mr. Speaker , yesterday I asked the Minister of Human Resources Development why her predecessor had not signed a letter similar to hers delegating signing authority to the deputy minister . 
the space station was launched from Texas , a state that retains capital punishment . 
what about the Supreme Court ? 
he basically said " Speak for a while and then the legislation will be passed , regardless of how well - articulated or useful your arguments may be to improve the bill '' . 
the pressure on volunteer and service groups is ever - mounting . 
madam Speaker , I also support Bill C - 205 which would amend the Income Tax Act so that mechanics can deduct the cost of their tools . 
this utter contempt for northerners is only matched by the arrogance of making a decision while he is out of the country . 
he said , " Even before I get a chance to pay into other things that are supposed to help take care of my family , I have to give almost $ 1,400 to the federal government . 
rather , it leaves it to other branches of the federal government , such as economic development agencies . 
Mr. Speaker , for centuries the lives of the Gwich ' in people of Yukon and Alaska have been ecologically connected to the migration of the porcupine caribou herd . 
some hon. members : 
the government may be expected to take the view that it did not assume office to preside over the dissolution of the federation . 
on the west coast the British Columbia Treaty Commission is negotiating modern day treaties with 51 first nations where no settlements were negotiated . 
if there is a referendum - and 72 % of Quebecers hope that there will not be - it will be conducted according to the provisions of the provincial referendum legislation . 
it has not come through with enough emergency aid for farmers . 
in 1912 , Ontario adopted Regulation 17 , severely limiting the instruction of French ; and in 1916 , the Privy Council ruled that the French language was constitutionally protected only in the courts and in the Canadian and Quebec Parliaments . 
second , he talked about taking the NISA program and expanding it so that we protect farmers from all kinds of trade distortions that are occurring all over the world . 
some hon. members : 
to go down and check the bank account to see how it is doing when there is nothing in it ? 
genetically ENGINEERED FOOD LABELLING 
for continuation of proceedings see Volume C ] 
with the fishery being the cornerstone of West Nova ' s economy , it is imperative that the emergency service be available in a time of crisis . 
i think I counted five interventions from the opposition benches just prior to my rising . 
Tuesday , November 30 , 1999 
i will not deny that I would have preferred that it not come to this . 
hon. David Anderson ( Minister of the Environment , Lib . ) : 
the importance of air travel to small communities is also a very serious concern . 
then there is the class of matters where we did not have that power - a class that is so fundamentally political that it is the exclusive prerogative of the House of Commons , the chamber of the people ' s elected representatives . 
HANNUKAH 
honourable senators , is the leader suggesting that the new money will go out before the old money is paid out ? 
that Bill C - 6 be amended by deleting Clause 10 . 
nothing informs the public mind to understand and evaluate an issue like a public referendum . 
third , the official opposition believes strongly that the department of Indian affairs should begin the process of funding aboriginal persons on reserves directly , then allowing local aboriginal government to tax its own people to get access to it . 
the petitioners call upon parliament to set by the end of this coming year national clean fuel standards for gasoline with zero MMT and low sulphur content . 
Mr. Odina Desrochers ( Lotbini è re , BQ ) : 
the consequences of this departure include the replacement of the supremacy of parliament with the supremacy of the constitution as interpreted by judges . 
Ms. Libby Davies ( Vancouver East , NDP ) : 
they want this clarified . 
social PROGRAMS 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
anti - SMOKING MOVEMENT 
as well , a freeze on payments from 1993 to 1995 made municipal governments mistrustful of the federal government and made the current system unreliable . 
among those who were employed with corporations that had the urge to downsize and lay off tens of thousands of workers , the usual group got it . 
none of those opportunities exist today under the Indian Act . 
Mrs. Elsie Wayne : 
honourable senators , Canadians quite rightly should be happy with these results , but let us give credit , or at least some of it , to where credit is due . 
formal Royal Assent , properly communicated to the public , would serve to inform Canadians not only about their parliamentary institutions , but also about the laws being passed that affect them . 
in the final analysis , who will determine which question meets the test of clarity ? 
in fact , I challenge the government to quote or to name a single Quebec organization applying the Young Offenders Act on a daily basis that supports the amendments proposed by the minister . 
this is one of the major reasons farmers are in trouble . 
honourable senators , the time allocated for this debate has expired . 
it is a place that is the antithesis of democracy in many ways . 
is leave granted , honorable senators ? 
honourable senators , I do not want to make a qualitative statement about the importance of any item on the Order Paper . 
i believe that for the most part , all events were quite successful . 
introduction and first reading 
the minister is reintroducing the same bill , in spite of the numerous concerns expressed by the public , particularly in Quebec , and is pursuing the same goal , which is to fight Reformers on their own turf , on the right , so as to improve her party ' s image in western Canada . 
agreed . 
Mr. Speaker , a spot check of 70 grants found $ 27 million made its way to donors of the governing party . 
the Prime Minister compared the loss and mismanagement of a billion dollars to Canadians accidentally going over budget at the end of the month . 
motion No. 410 negatived 
one in particular is called the Ho Chi Minh trail which I was on the week before last . 
hon. St é phane Dion 
they must not wait and see if the traps have been pulled . 
therefore , it really is unnecessary in this instance to reassert it . 
nuclear TEST BAN TREATY 
that Bill C - 8 be amended by deleting Clause 19 . 
because Solitude alone is the source of inspiration . 
honourable senators , I give notice that on Tuesday next , March 28 , 2000 , I will draw the attention of the Senate to the tenth annual bilateral meeting of the Canada - Japan Inter - Parliamentary Group and the Japan - Canada Parliamentarians Friendship League held in Toyko , Hiroshima and Shikoku , Japan , from November 6 to 13 , 1999 . 
we are now dealing with Bill C - 244 and then we will move on to real business . 
members 
must try to strengthen or improve the exercise of provincial legislative and administrative authority in the following areas : natural resources , manpower training , social services , education , language and culture , municipal affairs , sports , housing , and tourism . 
as the House carries on with its deliberations it will be necessary for all members to consider whether members of the official opposition are describing the actual Nisga ' a treaty or their own make believe treaty . 
every person is entitled to privacy . 
No. 
i would like the member from the Conservative Party to tell us what he thinks about two of them : lowering the age limit of young offenders that could be submitted to adult sentences , and releasing young offenders ' names . 
why does the minister not just give Andy his Christmas bonus instead of the Christmas goose ? 
Mr. David Pratt 
simplistic lock them up and throw away the key responses are not effective . 
Mr. R é al M é nard 
it is a motion contained on the notice paper , of which he has already given the House notice . 
our job is to express our concerns and introduce alternate options . 
do we want to have a country where the laws are the same ? 
( the House divided on Motion No. 468 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Daniel Turp ( Beauharnois - Salaberry , BQ ) : 
listening to evidence from a Queen ' s counsel in Vancouver at one of the meetings on Friday , he said that the only certainty it would bring was certainty for the lawyers because he could make a living for the rest of his days off this treaty either by challenging it because it was wrong or defending it because he thought it was right . 
order stands . 
a Statistics Canada study shows that EI cuts are the leading reason for the increase in poverty among families with children . 
( division 622 ) 
as the parliamentary secretary said in his remarks , when one examines the question of what is the best way to reduce the tax burden on our citizens we always have to choose . 
unlike the Nisga ' a deal , self - government is not constitutionally entrenched in the northern agreements . 
they continue to rise in 2001 - 02 , in 2002 - 03 , and in 2003 - 04 . 
adjournment PROCEEDINGS 
it is not trumpeted abroad , but in British Columbia , where perhaps there has been too excessive reliance in the past on primary resource industries , it is a way into the new century . 
is it ( a ) grab the money from taxpayers using bracket creep for $ 40 billion ? 
on motion of Senator DeWare , for Senator Lavoie - Roux , debate adjourned . 
conservation remains the first priority . 
back in 1975 Petro - Canada was created , the nationalization of Petrofina . 
the government wants to settle things for good . 
hon. Martin Cauchon ( Minister of National Revenue and Secretary of State ( Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec ) , Lib . ) : 
besides meeting commitments for specific legislative changes made by the government on October 22 , 1999 , when it tabled its response to the report of the Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights , Bill C - 18 also contains two provisions that are technical in nature . 
we have heard from the Liberal Party . 
business of the Senate 
( division 131 ) 
we know the threats are real . 
in this Ann é e de la Francophonie , which is particularly exciting in Quebec , I would like to pay special tribute to those women who fought for the right to vote for women in Quebec . 
a fund to provide for early childhood development programs is an initiative proposed by the national Liberal children ' s caucus . 
that is what the government should do . 
we have had a considerable amount of unfortunate incidents in my riding between non - native and native groups . 
madam Speaker , I am pleased to rise in the House this afternoon to speak to Bill C - 13 , an act to establish the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and to repeal the Medical Research Council Act . 
i would like to highlight the recommendations calling for the reduction of the minimum age to 10 years old and the recommendation referring to alternative measures , as they are of particular importance to me . 
gulf WAR SYNDROME 
that Bill C - 2 , in Clause 2 , be amended by replacing lines 36 to 39 on page 6 with the following : 
this is the one thing that unites federalists and separatists in this country . 
paired 
therefore , I seek the unanimous consent of the House to have the bill reinstated to the same position it was in at the time of prorogation of the first session of parliament . 
Mrs. Pauline Picard 
i have spent some time on a reserve . 
the Speaker : 
Mr. Jerry Pickard 
oh , oh . 
we treat each other with respect . 
agreed . 
it is going to have to quickly settle this jurisdictional problem of whether we have equal access to natural resources , or whether we have access based on ethnicity or race . 
second , this is a dispute having to do with a divorce in which one party is accusing the other , a dispute set in a specific context , as we know . 
* * * 
first , I want to underline that I will make no comment on the civil case that is now before the courts since this would be inappropriate and not in keeping with our longstanding practices . 
Mr. Speaker , it is $ 3.9 billion if the minister would look at his numbers . 
Mr. Gilles Bernier 
today criminally organized smuggling and trafficking operations are conducting an extensive international trade in lives and in the forced labour of human beings . 
as members on both sides of the House will appreciate , international co - operation in combating organized crime is very vital . 
there could be some improvements in that regard . 
that is not acceptable . 
some hon. members : 
of course we are not opposed to an increase in research and development budgets for the creation of virtual institutes . 
Mr. Speaker , I think that is the most ridiculous nonsense I have ever heard in the House . 
hon. Claudette Bradshaw 
government ORDERS 
all those opposed will please say nay . 
it said the Commission was not at liberty to ignore the constitutional role played by the Montfort Hospital as a truly francophone centre necessary to promote and enhance the Franco - Ontarian identity . 
or , it could argue that the official is no longer working with us , so it is no longer a problem . 
he is one of the august members on the Liberal benches . 
members 
i wish to refer honourable senators to rule 60 ( 1 ) , which sets out the conditions which must be met . 
the government said it would spend $ 85 million to set up this registry . 
what is the situation ? 
report of Committee on Subject Matter of Parts 2 to 5 Tabled 
the government is charged with that mandate . 
honourable senators , I have a supplemental question arising out of Senator Kinsella ' s question . 
she said she was " slighted " by Reform allegations that the vote somehow impinges on parental rights and the results will be used by the Liberal government for some hidden agenda . 
that is part of the solution . 
Canadians who did not have the opportunity now have the opportunity . 
i got involved in a fledgling political movement called the Reform association which in the fall of 1987 became the Reform Party of Canada . 
by way of Bill C - 202 these individuals will learn that Canadians and parliament will not tolerate such behaviour . 
the unfairness of this treatment is aggravated by the fact that members of other professions , including chain saw operators and musicians , are allowed to deduct the cost of their saw or of their musical instrument . 
we are not doing our native people any service or any value unless we instil within the bill the municipal type of accountability on a regular basis . 
it now uses closure on every single bill . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
* * * 
i will receive by the end of this year a report from the facilitator who has been working on the potential terms of arbitration . 
as for cattle , we recognized last week that in part of the decisions we were favoured . 
probably most Canadians would say , " Yes , you are entitled to do that . 
it is , of course , important to have a healthy economy . 
immigration 
rather than being caught in a whirlpool of discredited , backward - looking Liberal economic development policies that only pull maritimers down , Atlantic Canadians are looking toward a wave of economic and social progress based on new ideas and new politics . 
business OF THE HOUSE 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit 
the Speaker : 
honourable senators , that issue became the focus of my concern throughout our study of the bill . 
Mr. Derek Lee 
trade 
again it is an atrocious example of the dictatorial nature of this Liberal government that it will do things outside of the House which should be done in here and which should be done in consultation with members of parliament who represent their constituents and are accountable to them . 
rural residents will be left with no option but to use electronic communication to access services currently delivered at the local offices . 
the whole community benefits as a result of their work . 
Kosovo - Government Aid 
we know the minister of human resources has awarded grants to her own riding even though it did not qualify . 
i am talking about an additional $ 1 billion minimum of farm aid and farm assistance . 
motion No. 340 
motion No. 313 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
Mr. Keith Martin ( Esquimalt - Juan de Fuca , Ref. ) : 
will he now correct the problem so that the citizens of Mackenzie can enjoy the same rights and benefits as other northerners ? 
division No. 139 
contents 
" 20.1 ( 1 ) On the expiration of five years after the coming into force of this Act , the provisions contained herein shall be referred to such committee of the House of Commons , of the Senate , or of both Houses of Parliament as may be designated or established by Parliament for that purpose . 
there was a special healing site that the native people in Burnt Church burned by fire . 
this was also the pride of my 10 year old grandson . 
before then it was quite common for many more sockeye to escape than were needed on the spawning beds . 
i believe that this amendment would destroy the very objective the honourable senator is seeking . 
the treaty right is a regulated right and can be contained by regulation within its proper limits . 
access required to construct and operate licensed water supplies is protected , and the Nisga ' a water reservation , amounting to only 1 % of the Nass River flow , leaves ample volume for other uses which may be required in the future . 
i would like to change the minds of the people on the other side . 
motion No. 100 negatived 
there is a huge correlation here between who gets grants and who makes donations to the Prime Minister ' s campaign . 
i would invite the hon. member to do two things . 
some hon. members : 
the Minister of Health has agreed to study them . 
how does she see it operating ? 
hon. Ralph E . Goodale 
the Deputy Speaker : 
in Canada these days we are once again consumed with the question of national unity . 
it is a test done to check whether in fact a department or a company is operating properly . 
she is a 17 year old student who has taken the initiative to study the Nisga ' a final agreement . 
let me mention the 20 th anniversary of Bleak House , a very important centre for seniors working to ensure social and recreational opportunities for all of our senior citizens . 
one Liberal member of the committee , the member for Scarborough Southwest , stated on April 28 , 1999 , in relation to this clause that he took the position of the traditional historic pattern of the Liberal Party of not having retroactive legislation . 
we on the opposition side support the effort to try to make the work of the committee more democratic . 
the Honourable Senator Sparrow asked me questions with respect to polling . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe 
the government says that with the charter of rights and freedoms that sort of thing cannot be mandated . 
by doing so we will be sending out a signal saying that a child needs the support of his family and society until he or she is aged 18 years . 
i wonder if the honourable senator could repeat her question . 
with that said , there is a sad reality to all of this . 
Mr. Rob Anders ( Calgary West , Ref. ) : 
i think you will find unanimous consent to congratulate them and give them a good round of applause . 
under the provisions of the bill , the ombudsman would be appointed for a term of five years with the governor in council making the appointment on the recommendation of the minister . 
it will act as an umbrella organization for other established Canadian heritage groups and will use television , film and the Internet to help educate people on Canada ' s history . 
this is a relatively small area of expertise and typically the same people are recognized as impartial experts by municipalities , assessment authorities and federal officials . 
this document is not intended as a dead letter , but as something that will become an instrument of positive action to encourage all freedom - loving people to devote their energies to seeing that human rights are respected . 
hon. Herb Gray 
yet the government refuses to do it . 
motion No. 156 
oh , oh . 
on Motion No. 43 : 
we also must encourage the oil - producing countries - OPEC , in particular - to release more supply on to the market . 
above all , we hope it will develop among our people in that great area of northern British Columbia near the Alaska border a sense of pride and freedom and an opportunity to develop themselves . 
the supreme court case , M v H , which led to this act , was about support payments after the breakdown of a same sex relationship : commitment , responsibility and accountability . 
i have given a long list of other programs that were initiated to help the children of Canada , even during a period when we were cutting from every other department . 
introduction and first reading 
* * * 
Mr. John Duncan : 
some very in - depth negotiations went on and some very capable people on the part of the FCM came forward to represent , thankfully , the people who live in the municipalities . 
breast CANCER 
* * * 
this is only one of several acts of extreme violence that we have seen occurring among our youth today . 
Canadians are fed up with young people who have no regard for authority , the community or the law . 
maybe we should take the appointment process away from the government . 
farm AID 
this project would provide the greatest stability for the future , in particular for ecotourism . 
free trade was the most progressive of measures at the time . 
the Speaker : 
the protests are so strong that the government has decided to back up with the bill it introduced in the last session , Bill C - 80 . 
i have a problem with his statement that the government believes in being fair and equitable . 
and on Friday she announced that " the definition of marriage relates to an institution that is of fundamental and longstanding religious and historical significance '' . 
bill C - 23 has the advantage of clarifying various pieces of legislation in a manner consistent with the spirit of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms , and without prejudice to the institution of marriage , which a majority of us , myself included , wish to protect . 
the Nisga ' a final agreement represents an important page in Canadian history . 
our best wishes go especially to the large Lebanese Canadian community that has enriched Canadian society with its dynamism and its joie de vivre . 
paired 
would we describe this system as fair ? 
i should like to have a list of those witnesses . 
mandatory LABELLING OF GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOODS 
the fact of the matter is - 
income TAX ACT 
incidentally , Onex is the company which will take control , and which has a particular interest in this acquisition . 
some will say : " Sure , but he succeeded in getting elected in the riding of Saint - Maurice '' . 
while his record of fairness and commitment to public service would be the pride of any parliamentarian , he is best remembered by me and many Canadians of Ukrainian descent as the first Canadian cabinet minister of Ukrainian descent . 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to take this opportunity to thank the interpreters . 
that is wrong . 
as a result , I would like the members of the House to know that the report is incomplete in the study of the national safety net effectiveness . 
i will read the definition of taxing authority from the Municipal Grants Act . 
my question to the member is very simple . 
yeas 
believe it or not , I live kitty - corner from the police station , within shouting distance . 
but when the Bloc Quebecois tells us that the sacrosanct rule of democracy is 50 % plus 1 , and then makes exceptions to this for municipal referendums , are they not perhaps beginning to understand that democracy is a bit more complex and expresses itself in different ways . 
when I say end , I do not mean to go their own way completely and do whatever they wish . 
they are shifting the proceeds of crime from one country to the other and are robbing us with a fountain pen . 
this approach to power is one that cannot be taken lightly . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
on motion of Senator Austin , bill placed on the Orders of the Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate . 
it was an internal audit of the department that highlighted administrative deficiencies which we had to fix . 
could the minister tell us what the business and employment prospects are for Canada ' s youth ? 
what he fails to accentuate is that the accused person was convicted in that situation . 
Mr. Speaker , I too would like to acknowledge the Speaker for his very liberal viewpoints on many issues and also for his very conservative implementation of the rules of this place . 
the member opposite has no proof that the Minister of Human Resources Development released the document on the 17 th because the Reform Party did what it did on the 19 th . 
members 
it was rejected at second reading by a vote of 68 to 59 . 
during your earlier discourse and groupings you indicated that Motion No. 109 was part of Group No. 2 . I am wondering what happened to Motion No. 109 . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
on the contrary , Canada ' s emergence as a highly educated society is not new . 
private MEMBERS ' BUSINESS 
the Speaker : 
bill C - 6 does not improve on Quebec legislation , it will diminish it . 
( the House adjourned at 2.14 p.m. ) 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe ( Laurier - Sainte - Marie , BQ ) : 
i always consider Black History Month a time when great friendships and understanding among communities of every race and ethnicity can be fostered . 
the second point I wanted to make is , why is there an obligation in the law of this land to ensure that Air Canada is forced to have its headquarters in Montreal ? 
rights of Children 
honourable senators , I have made the point more than once , and I hope I have made it forcefully : 
division No. 344 
people think we come here to debate the issues . 
we have a process in place here where the official opposition automatically gets the opportunity , if it so chooses , to chair the public accounts committee . 
so we cannot detract from the rights of children . 
the hon. member has suggested that there are three approaches to overcoming leukemia . 
the official opposition continues to hold real consultations with farmers . 
motion No. 170 
the B.C. government was warned by its own bureaucrats in 1987 . 
hon. Harbance Singh Dhaliwal 
like the people we serve , we have been stretching dollars further and further , trying to do the best we can with allocated resources . 
genetically Engineered Foods 
members 
that was my fault , not the fault of the party . 
and like political parties , they will be prohibited from advertising during the final 48 hours of a campaign . 
motion agreed to and bill read second time . 
the taxation regime perpetuates special status based on ethnicity . 
resuming debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Austin , P . C . , seconded by the Honourable Senator Fairbairn , P . C . , for the second reading of Bill C - 9 , to give effect to the Nisga ' a Final Agreement . 
nay . 
however , at a time when we are looking at the enormous burden of taxation on our people , the costs and the prioritizing of the moneys that are raised is extremely important . 
it goes to show us in the west that we have the right attitude . 
maybe the Liberal House leader has it in his binder . 
Mr. Bob Speller 
home based businesses are an incubator for innovation and ideas . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
therefore , this house has never had that subject - matter before it . 
" 20.1 ( 1 ) On the expiration of two years after the coming into force of this Act , the provisions contained herein shall be referred to such committee of both Houses of Parliament , as may be designated or established by Parliament for that purpose . 
obviously we are dealing with a difficult situation . 
i look forward to enjoying the benefits and watching it as it progresses over the next decades . 
the Canadian mining industry is a pace setter in productivity and a major user of advanced technology products and services . 
fourth , the struggle against impunity ; of fidelity to the Nuremberg legacy of bringing war criminals to justice . 
in 1962 , I arrived in Antigonish , at St. FX University , eager to study philosophy and political science , hoping against hope that I could become a student at the feet of John Stewart , the professor , much the same as I did literally weeks ago . 
it is also considered an important issue because agriculture and health are intimately linked . 
notice of Motion to Authorize Committeeto Engage Services and Travel 
we also heard from the member for Skeena that this treaty is going to cost a huge amount of money . 
* * * 
i know some of you here in this chamber share those concerns . 
we make our armouries available , as in the case the hon. member refers to , in emergency cases . 
we are entering the century of the Pacific . 
national CHILD DAY 
that is what we get for spending over $ 6 billion on aboriginal services today . 
these problems are severe and threaten the competitiveness of Canada in the international arena . 
members 
it is working because dialogue and co - operation are working . 
we should always question seriously the limiting of debate on any matter before Parliament . 
this is quite interesting in itself , in that it is an unusual , highly irregular practice in the House , what we tend to call the highest court in the land , where 80 % of the members will vote for the treaty , but we have an obstructionist group putting forth amendments and pretending to have a legitimate debate . 
in so doing , the court provided good guidance for a new legislative framework for controlling third party spending in the federal electoral context . 
so , this is what is going to happen : it will be obscure one day , and obscure the next , or rather , clear one day , and obscure the next . 
yes or no . 
in order to implement those democratic reforms , we need the 150 - plus votes required to carry a motion or a bill and no such free voting or committed majority exists in this Chamber at the present time . 
according to documents from the Department of Foreign Affairs , Canada retained a small number of mines - 
our country has continued to push ahead with innovation in the years since , capturing leadership positions in such areas as telecommunications , aerospace and information technology . 
some hon. members : 
i was in Washington recently with some of my friends from the opposition parties as well . 
some hon. members : 
the last four clauses contain the consequential amendments to the Access to Information Act , the Federal - Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act , the Financial Administration Act and , finally , the Privacy Act . 
* * * 
second reading 
Mr. Speaker , the advantage in having the member for Beauharnois - Salaberry as critic is that he has a certain credibility to defend . 
nay . 
we should not engage in petty politics , as the Liberals really enjoy doing , when we are dealing with such an issue . 
participants from across the country exchanged information and ideas regarding best practices in dealing with the interrelated issues of child offending and child victimization . 
the Environment 
we do not block the clearly expressed popular will , even in matters where , in law , we have the power to do so . 
we will continue to look for a negotiated and peaceful settlement that is fair to all . 
this demands that we collaborate with our partners to : 
we were completely cut off from the entire process . 
some hon. members : 
we support the treaty . 
one of the fundraisers for the Liberal Party of Canada in the last election has been convicted of influence peddling by linking the transitional jobs funds grants by saying that he will arrange a grant or arrange for someone to see the minister but the person will have to give a donation to the Liberal Party . 
that person may even see their income decrease . 
probably not . 
the question is on Motion No. 12 . Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
quarterly Rates 
i know that Senator Milne has a view about this . 
however , we have some concerns and I have some particular concerns with regard to the bill . 
surely honourable senators can do better than that . 
nil 
this multicultural event is a wonderful celebration of the heritage of East Asian Canadians . 
the member for Wentworth - Burlington gathered over 100 signatures in support of this bill , including the signature of the hon. member for Athabasca . 
in my riding of Winnipeg Centre I have problems similar to what the hon. member pointed out . 
criminal CODE 
i have to tell you that the member for Kootenay - Columbia has spilled water on my chair . 
i have given mighty thought to it . 
i want to point out that we do not live in a third world country . 
members 
the Speaker : 
hon. Dan Hays ( Deputy Leader of the Government ) : 
* * * 
the Deputy Speaker 
some hon. members : 
motion No. 83 
he briefly mentioned that he had responded to the drastic drop in income . 
it even includes a table of locations around the world that are less desirable as places to live because of the taxes , and Canada unfortunately is there in the top rank . 
motion No. 464 negatived 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
less than two years ago the Van Egmonds thought that they had found the perfect solution to their dream . 
the hon. member for Kootenay - Columbia . 
they are not the same in the case of every treaty . 
immigration 
2 nd Session , 36 th Parliament , 
during the 1970 s , seasonality in employment declined somewhat , primarily in the primary industries mainly due to the decline in the size of the agricultural sector relative to the rest of the economy . 
IRELAND 
motion No. 101 
a very sick sailor , honourable senators , could not be evacuated from his ship off the East Coast of Nova Scotia because the HMCS Fredericton ' s Sea King was non - operational ; nor was the Sea King aboard HMCS Ville de Quebec operable ; nor was there any Sea King available at Shearwater . 
i have gone over these forms with several farmers in my riding and they are wondering what in the world they are to do with them . 
delayed Answers to Oral Questions 
worse still , the Quebec Minister of Labour , Diane Lemieux , announced her intention to postpone indefinitely the long awaited labour code reform for truckers in Quebec . 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
that is tragic . 
Mr. Monte Solberg ( Medicine Hat , Ref. ) : 
i presume that the Chamber includes from wall to wall and that cellphones are not permitted behind the curtains either . 
we have been named six times as the best country in the world . 
the second thing it would do is this . 
one thing I always did when I went to court was I prepared for a win and prepared for a loss . 
in other words , we should stop criminalizing the victims . 
yeas 
unfortunately this petition arrived late . 
second , in our opinion , the CRTC should ensure that all Canadians have access to an individual telephone line so that they can connect with the Internet . 
Mr. Speaker , the member mentioned the issues of poverty and trade and the fact that the director general of the WTO said that poverty is the enemy , not trade . 
members 
in addition to its important interparliamentary analytical and cooperative work , the assembly takes part in the establishment and strengthening of democratic institutions and in election observation missions . 
criminal Code 
* * * 
we have to encourage it . 
i am proud of my fellow members from all parties who support it . 
i had also shown how , when it comes to justice , the current government often applies a double standard . 
we are dealing with space , therefore electronics and very advanced science and technology . 
i come from Saskatchewan and the prairie farmer is - 
the next budget will lay out a multi - year plan for further tax reduction . 
if the minister really wanted to prohibit government funding of political parties , why did he not include this prohibition in Bill C - 2 ? 
Mr. John Solomon ( Regina - Lumsden - Lake Centre , NDP ) moved : 
global POPULATION 
why is that ? 
i ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate : 
that Bill C - 10 , in Clause 14 , be amended by replacing line 19 on page 13 with the following : 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe 
they are trying to increase their chances of electoral success by doing everything possible in Bill C - 2 to stack the odds in their favour . 
we have a few ideas as to how that could be done . 
that is from the Edmonton Journal of February 2 . 
simply put , without the use of Canadian robotic technologies , the station could not be built or maintained efficiently and effectively . 
it is a myth to say that we will support the status quo because the status quo is killing Canadians . 
honourable senators , I rise to ask the Table to call , as the first item of business , Order No. 2 under the heading of " Bills " , namely , the second reading of Bill C - 6 . 
paired 
No. 
Mr. Yvon Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst , NDP ) : 
this legislation set out clear rules for witness protection but in the interests of safety , required only the disclosure of basic data . 
the Honourable John B . Stewart 
Mr. Ren é Laurin ( Joliette , BQ ) : 
paired 
have you considered the fact that with Senator Stewart ' s departure I lose a vote ? 
i can cite some of the wonderful programs of which I am aware in my home province . 
in addition , the extra $ 2.5 billion over four years that the budget promised for health care and post - secondary education appears to be too little too late . 
and more than five members having risen : 
i respect that member and his contribution to this place . 
at the same time , in light of the early closure of Phalen , we are examining the human resources issues to see what new we can do . 
Mr. Mauril B é langer ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Canadian Heritage , Lib . ) : 
have we seen any legislation to deal with those problems ? 
bill C - 20 should be seen as a proposal that provides a different mechanism to achieve the same end result , while respecting our tradition of responsible government that dates back to Confederation . 
( division 136 ) 
for the information of the government , the accord was defeated in a Canada - wide referendum , including the majority of aboriginal people who voted . 
nays 
motion No. 249 
honourable senators , it is your pleasure to adopt the motion ? 
by the same token , unless the new Onex deal has some interesting propositions with respect to American Airlines effective control I think that proposal is problematic . 
( division 388 ) 
what free trade has done for us in Canada is to raise our exports from $ 90 billion to $ 230 billion over five or six years . 
its powers are spelled out by an act of this legislature , this House of Commons . 
the government is capable of choosing an approach the fishers would agree to . 
that the Supplementary Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2000 , laid upon the Table November 4 , 1999 , be referred to the several standing committees of the House in accordance with the detailed allocation attached . 
the government has acted in a reasonable manner . 
Mr. Jim Pankiw ( Saskatoon - Humboldt , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I would like some clarification and observations from the member on this issue . 
based on comments received during the consultation phase of a preliminary internal assessment process , Health Canada scientists initiated an extensive review of the effects of caffeine . 
in this instance , the federal government has long been delaying taking its responsibilities by introducing a bill that would apply only to corporations under its jurisdiction . 
paired 
moreover , members of parliament no longer communicate with their constituents by stepping up on a wooden box on a pier . 
i am not alone in this belief . 
that is the sort of thing that happens on a day to day basis across the country . 
madam Speaker , the issue that is being dealt with today is strictly a power struggle . 
you come to Canada , you are a landed immigrant , and you can become , on objective principles , a citizen . 
we are providing additional funding of $ 11.5 billion . 
those who came by boat are roughly 2 % of all those who came illegally to our country in this past year . 
hon. John B . Stewart : 
Mr. Rick Laliberte ( Churchill River , NDP ) : 
* * * 
was the cost of that , the real cost of a bus travelling around the riding carrying great billboards praising the Minister for International Trade , included in the accounts ? 
she has done an extremely good job in working with the government , sometimes criticizing the government but certainly working with the minister on this file . 
Ms. Wendy Lill 
Mr. Derek Lee ( Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
there was closure . 
nowhere in this bill does it change what has been written about our role , or non - role , in the actual conduct of the negotiations . 
let me give an example . 
one constant is the good work and continued interest of veterans organizations . 
whatever happened to military leadership ? 
when the softwood lumber agreement expires the people of Okanagan - Coquihalla are demanding that the federal Liberal government remember there are people working in the forest industry in British Columbia and we expect a better deal or no deal at all . 
Mr. David Chatters 
the House met at 2 p.m. 
actual answers to the questions have been at a premium . 
that is what it is all about . 
private MEMBERS ' BUSINESS 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
my study also indicates that there is much to be concerned about as Parliament considers whether or not to establish a statutory process and a legal right to secession , for if we do this it will be for the first time in Canada ' s 133 - year history . 
the Canadian government has taken a similar position , and rightfully so . 
i am now able to see the hon. member for Langley - Abbotsford . 
that person then received more government grants . 
i contacted the Action d é mocratique Qu é bec in the Quebec legislature and I have done research including a search of the media to find out what other people are saying about this issue and this bill . 
people should do what they can to fight this legislation . 
Mr. Speaker , yes , currently , members of the private sector and of various governments are looking together at ways Canada could act in order to achieve the level of 6 % below that of 1990 . 
i want to refer Your Honour to Standing Order 47 which states clearly that points of order should be raised in this instance following the daily routine of business . 
the Canadian market alone generates $ 10 billion U.S. annually . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore : 
some hon. members : 
farmers only get mere cents . 
Mr. Bernard Patry ( Pierrefonds - Dollard , Lib . ) : 
hon. Alfonso Gagliano 
however , the program was designed by the federal government in cooperation with the two governments which now , having made their dramatic gestures , have backed away from a real commitment . 
remember the case of the " particular status for Quebec " , and remember the case of the " four vetoes " . 
my second question has to do with political actors . 
as a result of infringing upon areas of provincial jurisdiction , of walking all over the provinces , Ottawa is caught stepping on its own toes . 
i see this largely driven by the Reform Party and the member for Prince George - Bulkley Valley . 
Mr. Howard Hilstrom 
in the past , the elections act has been criticized for having a number of restrictions that limit the ability of Canadians to exercise democracy . 
i agree with the member and this will not come as a surprise to him . 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
* * * 
honourable senators , as Senator Graham has said , in 1962 I was asked to consider seeking the Liberal nomination in the federal constituency of Antigonish - Guysborough . 
the Speaker : 
here is another credibility gap between the minister ' s story to the House and information from her department . 
Canadians want to have their policies decided by their elected representatives , not by WTO bureaucrats or even ministers who take their advice from the global corporations . 
introduction and first reading 
railway CROSSINGS 
Mr. Randy White ( Langley - Abbotsford , Ref. ) : 
this follows the announcement made in Quebec last week concerning a $ 165 million federal investment , over a five year period , to support the work of 500 health researchers . 
the planning process , for instance , did not include environmental impact assessments of the proposed land use , its impact on wilderness and on grizzly bear habitat . 
Mr. Preston Manning 
madam Speaker , you know this story and I will not repeat it in detail , but I will give a brief history of the Nisga ' a . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
following an emergency debate this afternoon , it was reported that native leaders have now decided to withdraw their support for a 30 day moratorium . 
is there anything wrong with that ? 
Mr. Speaker , it gives me pleasure to rise to speak to Bill C - 2 . 
east Timor 
division No. 413 
introduction and first reading 
i would like to ask that you again ask for unanimous consent for what the hon. member for North Vancouver asked just moments ago . 
it is fine and well to say that because Henry VIII changed the rules in 1541 by appointing lords commissioners to grant assent on behalf of the sovereign , so can we . 
* * * 
paired 
now it is being introduced to allow injustice . 
the chief electoral officer is responsible for the implementation of the elections act . 
canada Business Corporations Act Canada Cooperatives Act 
in 1997 several elders , led by Greg Twoyoungmen from Alberta , came to Ottawa to meet with the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development to talk about the problems on their reserves . 
national FLAG OF CANADA DAY 
we would have thought that the minister would have been one of those persons who would have read the court ' s decision to clearly understand it , or at least have had somebody else read it to him if he was not capable of reading it himself . 
when sponsors of a bill ask for leave of the Senate , senators should know for what reason leave is being requested . 
on an international level , what Canada is doing is not all that wild or crazy as some members of parliament would have us think . 
that is the reason . 
here , nobody listens to us . 
it will create more highly skilled jobs in key sectors of the economy and , above all , it will create healthier Canadians . 
transfers to the provinces for health care are now at an all time high . 
the Department of Justice is notorious for lengthy and protracted lawsuits . 
i ask hon. colleagues to please join with me in offering our sympathy to Ross ' wife Alison and his family at this very difficult time . 
i find this quite offensive . 
so , while the government did not intervene in any way , the Air Canada shareholders will have only one option on November 8 : accept or reject Air Canada ' s offer , since it is the only one that goes by the rules . 
what does it want to do ? 
while it does not add more money to the campaign , it does allow the campaign to carry the burden of such expenses if they exist without those expenses being part of the election spending cap . 
this means that there is nothing more important than the research done in our universities . 
nay . 
notice of motion 
perhaps that is why they take issue with this amendment . 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
we can strengthen our families , but the Liberal justice minister ' s idea of doing things in a timely fashion is to drag her feet . 
yeas 
criminal Code 
two ? 
how would my hon. colleague have tried to come up with something better as a strategy or plan than what happened ? 
i am thankful for political freedoms . 
clearly Bill C - 226 has no given local interest and is fully in the national interest . 
i hope that is what we are going to hear this afternoon , but there is not a collective holding of breath out in the hinterlands waiting for the finance minister to be that specific . 
i had the opportunity to discuss the issue of our new youth justice proposals with the Attorney General of Quebec last week in Vancouver . 
in space , there is a notion of intellectual property which may be debated and become the subject of litigation on occasion . 
a lot still needs to be done . 
i have here a list of projects in his riding that received money from the Canadian government and contributed to his party ' s campaign . 
one of the other things which was struck down in the B.C. case was any restriction on the publication of the results of polls . 
there are two concerns in particular on which I wish to comment . 
the punishment for possession of a prohibited firearm is imprisonment for up to five years . 
to be fair to the honourable senator , he also added that in order for the initiation to be completed by 2005 , it would require a significant amount of political will . 
Mr. Speaker , the treaty was properly negotiated and all its clauses were clarified . 
motion No. 23 
but it seems to me that there is a problem with the motion being suggested . 
the chair of the UN - Balkans environmental task force says NATO is refusing to co - operate with its investigation into DU use which has been linked to stillbirths , children born with defects , childhood leukaemia and other cancers , and the gulf war syndrome . 
we have had a tendency , over the last number of years , to pass legislation that lulls the public into believing that somehow the ill which we were trying to correct has abated . 
the government has carefully listened to the concerns of Canadians in all parts of the country about youth crime and how our justice system responds to it . 
senator Graham appeared to us on this side of the house as being an effective Leader of the Government in the Senate . 
five to ten thousand troops in a multilateral initiative that has a permanent peacekeeping base and operation centre can be very useful for diffusing a situation early , but it has to be multilateral . 
it is seven times higher than the total for the past five years . 
Ms. Carolyn Parrish ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Public Works and Government Services , Lib . ) : 
after making a decision to live permanently there , they were then called to the House of Lords . 
Mr. Peter MacKay : 
i really had to interrupt the member when she asked the question , and say that it was a question for the Order Paper . 
human RESOURCES 
fundraisers 
if the question being asked of us , as Canadians , was whether we should allow someone to receive a Canadian honour for benefits that Canadians have received from a particular person , I might make a distinction . 
Mr. Svend J . Robinson 
at the world food summit in Rome in November 1996 Canada joined 186 other nations to endorse the summit ' s goal , which is to reduce the number of undernourished people by half by the year 2015 . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
the fact is , however , that at this point in time , I am unaware of what might be contained in those documents and whether or not they are matters of national security . 
Mr. Monte Solberg 
we will be discussing the challenges posed by organized crime and what more we can do collectively to deal with the problem . 
" 25 . 
it has not taken long for the new Minister for International Trade to tell Canadians what his true priorities are . 
the corporate form of business organization is intended to protect shareholders from personal liability for civil debts of the corporation . 
agreed . 
i would suggest to the honourable senator that perhaps he may wish to deliver the message himself because he can do it with much greater knowledge and emotion than I can . 
Mr. Speaker , I wished I did not have to speak on a topic like this today because it would really never have come this far if we had had true democratic debate across the country . 
that is the first truth . 
hon. Herb Gray 
paired 
one sufficient reason , in his opinion , stated now , is because of the role of Parliament in the process . 
it is a general poll that was done before the 1995 referendum , and it showed that people believed that , after a yes vote , they would still be part of Canada and they would still use Canada ' s currency and have a Canadian passport , things the party opposite and the governing party in Quebec does not want . 
after 10 years of coping , my community is turning to the federal government . 
competition is the number one issue we hear about from consumers and people who have appeared before the committee that is reviewing the situation . 
among other things , we are dealing in the report with the level of individual ownership and the level of foreign ownership in Canadian Airlines . 
taxation 
we do not always agree with the Liberal members but I think on this issue we see eye to eye . 
Mr. Mark Muise 
he is saying that the best way to deal with the crisis is to let the courts decide and not have a plan . 
this is why I urge you not to wait for a week . 
the Speaker : 
too often elected members are criticized for not respecting the will of the people . 
that Bill C - 6 be amended by deleting Clause 50 . 
unless we are willing to throw money at the free market system indefinitely - and we are seeing today that is not possible - the alternative is to lower taxes , lower bureaucratic red tape and allow businesses to thrive on their own . 
Mrs. Elsie Wayne : 
i will not go into his story but suggest that members read it for themselves . 
the Liberals brought it in on Bill C - 78 , the public servants pension fund . 
tribute 
the owner , Mr. Goldberger , was furious and denied this , saying that his decision was strictly a business one . 
this is unconscionable , given the massive surplus in the EI fund . 
the Speaker : 
these are two examples of many . 
last spring and also for the last few days , the Bloc Quebecois has expressed its opposition to Bill C - 6 . 
Mr. Claude Bachand 
* * * 
i know the member thinks he has improved this bill . 
the hon. member for Fredericton . 
the board would be co - chaired by the federal minister and provincial territorial ministers . 
it is completely unacceptable that this is the direction in which it is going . 
Mr. Speaker , my question is for the Prime Minister . 
the age of the complainant in the existing exception would also be raised to 16 . 
could I have an answer ? 
there were two obvious ways that it could have gone : either the decision was in favour of Donald Marshall or it was not . 
he is a most efficient man , and a very reserved man as well . 
senator Stewart ' s contribution to the Senate over the 15 years since his appointment has been his penetrating wit and his broad knowledge , both of which have earned him an enviable reputation among his colleagues . 
the Croatian scandal also gave Canadians some insight into the deplorable quality of health care in the military . 
while the government says on the one hand that it wants to be inclusive by placing restrictions on how much parties can spend in a given process and by trying to regulate it to death as I have alluded to with regard to the motions , it goes ahead and puts all sorts of onerous regulations , problems , barriers and roadblocks to the participation of parties that are not in this place . 
leading economists , such as Pierre Fortin , have said that the answer to Canada ' s declining standard of living is to cut taxes and pay down debt . 
LISAARD HOUSE FOUNDATION 
the Speaker : 
Mr. Speaker , the New Democratic Party of Canada and its members of parliament join with the Canadian government , the prime ministers of the United Kingdom , Germany and France and many others around the world , including of course millions of Americans and President Clinton , in regretting the tragic , stupid , shortsighted and dangerous decision of the American Senate in rejecting the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty . 
i am not going to go into that . 
section 13 comes into force on February 10 , 2007 and the remaining provisions of this Act come into " 
an hon. member : 
the first key statement in its policy reads " All nurses with a religious objection to performing , or participating in , first trimester termination of pregnancy will be exempt '' . 
motion No. 115 
one still hopes that Premier Harris and his government will move in an appropriate way . 
the impact of the government ' s decisions of February 28 will thus fail to meet Canadians ' expectations in any but the most minimal sense . 
madam Speaker , first , I noticed that , as the hon. member for Qu é bec did informally yesterday , it is very difficult for my colleague not to hesitate to consider me a Quebecer . 
however , when the courts say time and time again that we as a parliament cannot strip people of their right to express themselves freely through paid advertising during an election campaign , the crucible of democratic deliberation in a society such as ours , the government says again and again that it does not accept the principle or notion of free political speech . 
in fact , it took corporate decisions which belied the very fragile state of its own balance sheet by ordering new planes last summer . 
this is not just dreaming , this is actual fact . 
the Speaker : 
i have two on my list . 
there is another $ 900 million in those accounts which they can withdraw right now if they need to . 
another point I would like to make is that this bill went directly to committee before second reading , with the intention , and perhaps this was the motivation , of keeping it out of the public spotlight despite the claim by the minister that the process was designed to accommodate meaningful amendments . 
the difficulty I have with some of the band - aid approaches taken by this government is that far too often we are ignoring some of the real solutions . 
it is interesting to note that there was no hesitation whatsoever about this , despite the fact that negotiations on these points were difficult , apparently . 
time and time again grassroots aboriginal people have come to me saying they would like to send their children to school . 
the government is turning a blind eye to this serious issue . 
the Liberals may not like it but it is in direct response to what they are doing , not to us . 
what the minister is claiming is not too complicated . 
that is right . 
Mr. Greg Thompson 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 5 , be amended by replacing line 16 on page 3 with the following : 
the government did not talk about that or mention it in the throne speech . 
by the end of 1997 Health Canada had reported a total of 15,528 AIDS cases since the beginning of the epidemic . 
for us in the Conservative Party this bill has been a hard blow . 
i was afraid that if I did not contribute to his war chest , and he won , I would be ignored if I needed help or rejected if I was looking for a federal grant . " 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit : 
the Prime Minister , in his letter to the premiers following their February 3 meeting , said that careful consideration would be given to the priorities expressed by premiers . 
when we see the process that is going on with respect to Bill 99 in Quebec and in Quebec City , the aboriginal people there in that context are ignored as well and not given full recognition of their rights and status . 
( motion agreed to ) 
the miners in Cape Breton worked for private companies until the 1960 s and then began to work under the crown corporation . 
if there is dumping , we will have to proceed with temporary duties . 
Mr. Paul Cr ê te 
but it will be too late for our colleagues opposite , who will be sorry they did not have the courage to speak up . 
even if an order was made for a Quebec business operating outside of Quebec , the federal legislation would automatically apply to 28 % of Quebec businesses involved in electronic commerce with other Canadian provinces . 
agriculture 
we also heard of some programs that she and her party would like to see added to that list . 
there is nothing like it in Quebec or in Ontario . 
i am sure we will with the hon. member for Elk Island who now has the floor to respond . 
motion No. 5 negatived 
what was going on there ? 
i agree with him . 
honourable senators , I believe it is the committee ' s intention to hear from at least the two ministers and probably the official to whom reference has been made . 
there is always give and take in debate . 
research spinoffs may be the most critical factor for Montreal . 
is there unanimous consent ? 
i will be there . 
i am pleased to present the petition . 
Mr. Randy White : 
very fundamentally and importantly , the Conservative Party believes that the entire process that was undertaken to revise the elections act was flawed at the very premise . 
suddenly the bill is here zinging through the House of Commons and will become law before they even know how it will affect them . 
it has led to an unhealthy culture in CSIS . 
canada used to fight for social justice . 
paired 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to appeal to the Chair , as I was about to say - 
sixth , we should expunge the concept of spouse from the lexicon , save and except for those people who are married , and replace that language with that of partner . 
Mr. Dale Johnston ( Wetaskiwin , Ref. ) : 
the Prime Minister , the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance have all said that we must come together because this is a joint area of jurisdiction . 
i would invite all individuals , companies and students in my beautiful riding of Verdun - Saint - Henri to take advantage of this project . 
we know that during the 1980 s and early 1990 s the government dealt with the issue in the only manner available without amending the Constitution , even though the Charlottetown Accord exercise established a solution to recognize self - government for aboriginals within Canada . 
the health committee chose not to pursue that course on a bill which could be enormously supportive of the research community and of the health and welfare of Canadians . 
order , please . 
we need to build an infrastructure of skills development and innovation to foster opportunities for Canadians to pursue lifelong learning . 
hon. Pierre S . Pettigrew ( Minister for International Trade , Lib . ) : 
* * * 
it is important to mention that the pardon does not erase the existence of the conviction and that it may be automatically revoked if the person is later sentenced for a criminal offence . 
we may debate the means and the pace , but from the point of view of our government , reducing taxes is not a debatable item . 
one of the points which the auditor general made in relation to the Canada Health Act is that the Government of Canada should work co - operatively with the provinces to make sure that everything they do in delivering services is consistent with the principles of the act . 
these conferences are a guide and a good future for us . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
thirty - Sixth Parliament Opening of Second Session 
* * * 
however , I suspect it must be difficult for the Reform members to keep turning those 180 degree turns all the time and making changes to positions that they had taken previously and putting forward resolutions such as we have today . 
all those in favour will please say yea . 
as stated without exaggeration in the foreword to the report I presented yesterday , the committee came to rely greatly on the competence of Peter Berg , our researcher . 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
will they not claim that Lawrence ' s rehabilitation opens the door to their own rehabilitation ? 
third , the government needs to ensure all Canadians that the competing overlapping claims will be accommodated and properly dealt with . 
this bill does not in any way represent a threat to the integrity of either the national assembly of Quebec or any other legislative assembly in the other provinces and the territories of our country . 
a person universally recognized for his humanity , who rigorously seeks out the truth in the facts and their honest interpretation and who finds such definite expression for the social role of the press and the media in general , can be said to have been a success in life , a life that was far too short . 
" for his troubles , Dion sits at the bottom of the hit parade of Quebec politicians . 
we have distorted the meaning of a corporation by setting up an agency of the government , dependent on the government for funding , with board members most often appointed by the government . 
leave has been granted , but may we find out why this is so important ? 
he could have decided whether to continue to take the medical treatment , because the drug therapy carries with it serious adverse effects . 
unfortunately we have more of a dictatorship in that regard than a democratic process . 
division No. 75 
Mr. Steve Mahoney : 
and since there are long distance charges , for instance , from Saint - Raymond to Saint - Marc - des Carri è res , some people will forgo making phone calls . 
this is an unusual day in that we do not have much business on the Orders of the Day . 
in the past , corporations have had to ensure that they complied with two duplicate sets of regulations that had the same public policy goal . 
the motions tabled by the Bloc are unacceptable and must be rejected . 
this too underscores a commitment of the Government of Canada to move in this area and do it in an appropriate Canadian kind of way . 
the minister should know that consumers make the best watchdogs . 
he has said that the Nisga ' a deal is just too complicated and complex for the people of British Columbia to figure out what it is all about . 
we know that legislation alone will not change society . 
consequently , in order for section 8 to properly protect an individual ' s reasonable expectation of privacy , it must take effect prior to the search or seizure and before information is disclosed . 
now we know . 
i had an experience this summer when I went to Strasbourg , France , to the Council of Europe . 
words are not enough to express our deep appreciation for the actions of these brave and determined individuals . 
i have notes indicating that nearly 2 million people have died since 1983 . 
Ms. Judy Wasylycia - Leis 
under the agreement the Nisga ' a people will receive a percentage of the Nass River salmon stocks and money toward buying into the commercial fishery . 
firearms ACT 
that is where we step back and ask , recognizing that those early years are so important , is there not something more that we can do to help parents spend more time with their children and their infants in those very early years ? 
the Deputy Speaker 
that Bill C - 9 be amended by adding after line 8 , on page 10 , Sessional Paper No. 8525 - 362 - 3 , The Nisga ' a Nation Taxation agreement , as Schedule 2 . 
Mr. Randy White 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 27 , be amended by replacing lines 7 and 8 on page 10 with the following : 
paired 
remembrance DAY 
it provides clear ground rules for business and helps improve consumer confidence , resulting in an environment that will foster the growth of electronic commerce in Canada . 
the senator speaks in the name of the Senate , for the institution as a whole , as though she had a clear mandate to do so . 
* * * 
correctional SERVICES CANADA 
i would suggest that this hon. member listen to one of his constituents in Toronto Centre - Rosedale who has provided a great blueprint for tax reform and tax reduction in Canada . 
hon. Senators : 
i would have thought this would have been a more appropriate time to talk to Quebec about the division of powers , about respecting what is the federal government ' s responsibility and respecting what is the provincial government ' s responsibility . 
it is simply so casual that no wonder the committee would not deal with it that way . 
agreed . 
paired 
i would suggest no . 
Mr. Speaker , every entrepreneur and business owner will tell you that being a businessperson is not always easy . 
the privileges of Parliament are the privileges of the people . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 411 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
the Federation of Canadian Municipalities gives some credit to the Liberals for their efforts to negotiate improvements to the program , but it still places them on probation for failing to make an explicit commitment to respect future provincial taxation principles . 
under the Liberal government , there is a process in place that limits the role of members of parliament in terms of those who are on the backbenches . 
the minister wants to spend money on all sorts of programs , but while he does so , the brain drain and the investment drain will continue . 
motion No. 161 negatived 
bill C - 5 . 
yeas 
Mr. Speaker , last Monday I had the opportunity to meet with a group of farmers in the lovely town of Melita , Manitoba . 
members 
this country is hardly overdosing on referendums . 
the government has gone one step beyond adopting what previous governments have done in actually grabbing and taking ideas right out of an election platform . 
it has been popular to forecast surpluses for the next five years . 
the interesting thing is that the panel has no real authority . 
i would investigate actual prisons . 
we are dealing today with Bill C - 3 , which proposes a system I cannot agree with . 
the existing legislation sets the age at 14 years , while the one proposed by the hon. member sets it at 16 . 
it reflects the political rights that we all have in the country that are protected constitutionally . 
the jobs training fund has been the focus of the media and of the public in the last month , but the issue is much larger . 
what has the finance committee done about November 11 ? That is a so - called week out , when members of parliament go back to their ridings to listen to the concerns of their people . 
i have been impressed with the depth and quality of investigations carried out therein . 
Mr. Robert Bertrand 
while I commend the government for its commitment to the military , I look forward to more details in the next federal budget . 
i want to ensure that the issue is settled before that committee gets involved in the study of a report that has been sent to it . 
Mr. R é al M é nard 
nineteen jobs were expected to be created and nineteen jobs are there . 
we are not all fundamentally opposed to the Senate . 
Mr. Speaker , today I pay tribute to one of parliament ' s most hard working and conscientious members . 
i declare Motion No. 103 lost . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
( motion agreed to ) 
convention ON THE RIGHTS OF THE CHILD 
that Bill C - 2 , in Clause 398 , be amended by deleting lines 39 to 46 on page 161 and lines 1 to 10 on page 162 . 
that tape contained names , addresses , birthdays , genders and driver ' s licences . 
paired 
i am sure the Prime Minister is aware of their views and will remain seized of the problem over the next number of weeks and months , even though there may not be a formal meeting of first ministers . 
Asia - Pacific Parliamentary Forum 
we would like to do more . 
hon. Lorne Nystrom : 
he raised a couple of important points , including the whole concept of special status . 
let us look at what is happening in Atlantic Canada today . 
Mr. Chuck Strahl 
yea . 
French resistance fighters are presenting to the Royal Canadian Legion Branch 28 in Chatham - Kent their battle flag . 
motion No. 141 
in particular , the court said : 
this time we will not just be looking at a simple increase in funding . 
we were patient . 
transitional Jobs Fund - Grants to 
so many times well connected Liberals are appointed to positions of power and prominence in this country . 
Mr. Ghislain Lebel ( Chambly , BQ ) : 
division No. 99 
it brings the offender together with the parties against whom they have committed this act , along with community leaders , to come to a resolution of this incident , providing some consequences for the individual . 
it is very close to opening another chapter in the hepatitis C saga . 
the SENATE 
scout - Guide Week 
senator Boudreau : 
some hon. members : 
hon. Senators : 
the NDP governments were there as were Mike Harris and Lucien Bouchard . 
child PORNOGRAPHY 
members 
the next question is on Motion No. 30 . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
what has happened is that the actions that back up those words are simply not there . 
there is a desire to bring some finality to the debate . 
our country has been systematically deprived - robbed - of the knowledge and view of its own political language , culture and customs as the position of the monarch as the lynchpin has been diminished . 
second Reading - Debate Adjourned 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
whether it involves carrying out interviews on the boats at sea before they are turned around or by some other means , we must find a way . 
if they kill someone , should we treat them as criminals ? 
Derek was quiet , careful , competent , witty and deliberative . 
the question is on the amendment to the amendment . 
we worked with the provincial governments there . 
what a comparison when we start talking about discretionary powers where the government may make some payment to a town or a municipality under Bill C - 10 . 
or " Do not ask Dracula to run the blood bank '' . 
obviously our partners outside our borders , MI 5 , the CIA , the FBI and other national security agencies , are looking at Canada right now with a very jaded view as a result of the way we have handled matters in the last six months . 
it should resonate throughout the country that the government in 1966 should have said , therefore , that if it was to downsize by 1980 these were the following alternatives that it planned to undertake so that as it downsized it increased or upsized industry in other alternative areas . 
i believe we may be heading down a slippery slope if we were to accept carte blanche what is currently in the legislation . 
as members of Parliament , as Canadians who may have personal memories of the Second World War , and as those who have lost friends and relatives , we have an added duty in this regard . 
i personally know many Senators and how hard they work for Canada . 
i think everyone would stand to gain from this . 
Devco was created by the federal government in 1967 to rescue the coal industry in Cape Breton . 
we saw the government drag its feet . 
however , my colleague has made some accusations about the Government of Quebec that are unworthy of us as parliamentarians . 
> royal CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE PENSION CONTINUATION ACT , R 1970 , C . R - 10 ; AND 
nays 
the House has heard the terms of the motion . 
second , Canada must assure itself that the treaty appropriately provides protection from infringement of any aboriginal rights other first nations may have in the territory covered by the agreement or the treaty rights which they may acquire . 
one has only to compare the Question Period in the other place with the Question Period in this place to see that . 
what if the MPs decided the 31 % in the Onex bid was way too high , and that the limit would be 15 % , and what if Onex could not comply with that , does the minister not realize share prices will drop drastically as a result , and people will make a quick profit ? 
let us think of the chaos that would be created if the Bloc got what it wanted and Quebec no longer was part of our country . 
that is the question . 
the said Commission was read by the Clerk of the Senate . 
with all these persons in their last days , pain control and the starting of artificial hydration and nutrition treatments became an issue , and I was called upon to reaffirm their wishes as they were no longer able to do so themselves . 
starting today we , the members of Parliament of Canada , will be able to have at our disposal a multitude of references to the rules , precedents and practices of our own House , explained in a clear and thorough manner . 
still , as unemployment rates began to drop , child poverty continued to rise . 
motion No. 89 
that answer is certainly helpful to the core of the debate that is now being developed . 
if the Bloc Quebecois wants to accept these two suggestions made by Mr. Ryan , let it so inform the House . 
it is time to provide a measure of stability to rural Canada . 
let us not forget that the charter of rights and freedoms will apply to Nisga ' a government and to all laws on Nisga ' a lands . 
members 
however , one of the difficulties is that we no longer have a revenue department . 
as is our practice on Wednesday we will now sing O Canada . 
simply increasing funding amounts , in my humble view , is not the answer . 
that foresight and commitment have been greatly rewarded . 
on the Order : 
in addition , because it is a confederation , one can be creative at the national level . 
it is no secret . 
women ' s employment has grown faster than men ' s in each of the last four decades . 
i declare Motion No. 71 lost . 
paired 
Mr. Speaker , clearly the public cannot have any confidence in anything that this party says . 
manifesto 2000 
i can tell the hon. member that the bottom line for us is public safety and getting drugs to the patient as quickly as we can , consistent with public safety . 
the next question is on Motion No. 50 . 
he said : 
originally Bill C - 10 proposed that the Minister of Public Works and Government Services appoint all the panel members , pay them , choose the chairperson , and he would be able to fire them at any time if he disagreed with any of the panel ' s decisions . 
division No. 171 
at the same time , the government must ensure that the protection of individual privacy is not achieved by means where they themselves may unduly intrude on the privacy of organizations and the people who work in them , as this would be an abuse of their own procedural rights and make the law seem unjust . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
over the weekend , I received pleas at my house from more than one family for home heating fuel . 
motions FOR PAPERS 
royal CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE 
quite often , these agreements are implemented even before the countries can have them officially ratified , so that the carriers of both countries can benefit from the terms of the agreements as soon as possible . 
the people of Lanark - Carleton are very aware and proud of their heritage . 
the hearings are televised . 
he has failed us on every count . 
even senators on the opposite side of the house , such as Senator Sparrow , have asked them . 
also , as pointed out in a Statistic Canada study , there is a connection between reading to young children and school success . 
that is not necessarily true . 
concurrence in Vote 110 a - Industry 
if the House gives its consent , I intend to move concurrence in the report later today . 
the motion to adjourn the House is now deemed to have been adopted . 
and this opposition is not just from the Bloc Quebecois or the Quebec government . 
the hon. member makes reference to the list . 
if I am the only who does not understand , I will end my participation right now . 
this implies a strong influx from south of the border . 
who is telling the truth ? 
you would like Franco - Ontarians to be eternally grateful , when we are giving them crusts of bread to do our work for us ! 
under the Criminal Code , pepper spray cannot be used by anyone for self - protection . 
i would ask hon. members not to use props . 
some hon. members : 
a majority of 68 % believe that the opposition parties in the National Assembly of Quebec should have a say in how the question is worded . 
( b ) by replacing , in the English version , line 34 on page 177 with the following : 
they are not . 
this report establishes the mandate of the committee , its quorum and its entitlement to sit during sittings of the Senate . 
i declare Motion No. 72 lost . 
some hon. members : 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
their research is at the highest standard . 
in my riding the last three years have been disastrous due to the drought . 
there is some reason for concern in B.C. on this very issue right as we speak , because not long ago the Musqueam Band in Vancouver acquired from the Minister of Indian and Northern Affairs the right to manage its properties that were on the reserve . 
we have brought forward many constructive amendments , including many at committee which were not accepted by government members . 
* * * 
it is important to mention that this convention was passed in 1989 by cabinet only . 
nothing is gained by taking from one who is simply making a living and giving it to another . 
first , it allows a negotiated settlement , the best solution . 
when the government refused to let the Standing Committee on Transport hear stakeholders , the Bloc Quebecois created a shadow committee to give everybody an opportunity to voice their opinions . 
agreed . 
the difficulty with the idea of extending the federal model to include workers outside the federal jurisdiction is that , constitutionally , workplace safety is also a provincial concern . 
Canadians will not be taken advantage of by those who would traffic in human misery . 
Mr. Speaker , I repeat , this government has committed to respecting the principle of pay equity . 
honourable senators , children living in minority communities across Canada deserve special attention if we wish to ensure the healthy development of all our children and their families . 
i am speculating but I suspect if we compared the situation today with 30 years ago , we would find that many more senior citizens are living on their own , rather than as part of extended families . 
this is a recognized privilege in this House . 
when will the federal government finally have the courage to speak out against orphan clauses as the people of Quebec have ? 
for one thing , the file was not transferred to Shawinigan , but remained in Montreal . 
the rest come through the airports or across the borders . 
to her surprise , it looked much like an Indian reserve of old , but bigger . 
disreputable and unparliamentary language has no place in the House . 
some hon. members : 
agriculture 
we want to make sure that other countries keep up to the same standards as we do . 
* * * 
what I would have to do is look at the most recent bill we discussed in this House . 
it therefore seems clear , according to the court , that the primary object of the right to privacy is the effect of an unreasonable search or seizure on an individual . 
sharing a vast continent with the one remaining superpower presents Canada with a unique situation . 
i know that discussions took place to proceed quickly . 
however , this will be dealt with in greater detail at the committee . 
some hon. members : 
notice of Inquiry 
these Supplementary Estimates are required to fund two basic , unforeseen expenditures in 1999 - 2000 : first , the expenses , including travel , of Senate committees for a number of special studies ; and second , personnel costs for research services to senators ' offices and the Senate Hansard reporting branch . 
if we look at this history further , honourable senators , we see that latter day Nisga ' a negotiations started in 1976 because of the Calder decision . 
motion No. 146 negatived 
paired 
will the minister commit to respect the committee system and honour the system not preordained - 
edited HANSARD * NUMBER 11 
frankly , I am disappointed with the government ' s response . 
these amendments , which we are supporting , toughen up the original draft and allow more judicial discretion . 
the Speaker : 
hon. Jane Stewart 
hon. Lorne Nystrom 
i did not agree to anything yet . 
these special assemblies were well attended and included information sessions on every aspect of negotiations . 
in the meantime , we brought forward as a government the aid program , AIDA , a year ago . 
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore : 
this co - operation is of several years ' standing and should be continued . 
paired 
fruit growers can plant now , pay later through an FCC loan . 
perhaps those who claim that the Nisga ' a final agreement is unenforceable without an amendment to the Constitution of Canada simply do not understand the importance of negotiating the reconciliation of ancestral rights within the Canadian federation . 
resuming debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Nolin , seconded by the Honourable Senator Cohen : 
- lead and co - ordinate the development and implementation of a national system of marine protected areas on behalf of the Government of Canada . 
the message is clear and the details will be spelled out in the February budget . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
there is no doubt that over the last few years a lot of problems arose because of cutbacks to the RCMP . 
i think it is an extremely important private member ' s bill . 
there is no way out for us . 
Mr. Steve Mahoney ( Mississauga West , Lib . ) : 
i applaud the member . 
Mr. Rob Anders 
i do not think those people believe that they live in a wonderful country . 
there are precious few members from the government benches who will be out there vociferously saying to the trade negotiators and others that we have to hold fast and tight on the Canadian Wheat Board . 
whereas society should be protected from youth crime through a youth criminal justice system that commands respect , fosters responsibility and ensures accountability through meaningful consequences and effective rehabilitation and reintegration , and that reserves its most serious intervention for the most serious crimes and reduces the over - reliance on incarceration for non - violent young persons ; 
senator Finestone informs me that she had not intended to stay on that committee but , since she attended her first meeting , she concluded that it was a good committee on which to serve . 
Mr. Rick Casson ( Lethbridge , Ref. ) : 
Trina McQueen , the Executive Vice - President of CTV , said that " the media just does not get it . " 
the result is that a teenager over 16 who has consensual sex with a person under 16 but who is close in age would be engaging in criminal conduct . 
custody , then , will be targeted to youth that commit violent and serious repeat offences . 
independent TRUCKERS 
members 
should we not have a viable , dynamic shipbuilding sector ? 
they cannot do it legally but it is set up anyway . 
i know he will continue to fight in this House against this legislation that cannot be allowed to go unchanged . 
* * * 
yet , with this legislation , it is not even prepared to recognize the civil code . 
as a matter fact , this bill is the result of a poll taken last summer by the federal government and paid for with our taxes . 
Mr. Paul Cr ê te : 
honourable senators , I want to say that circumstances have changed dramatically since 1965 , but the truth of the matter is that circumstances have not changed greatly for our aboriginal people in this country . 
paired 
motion No. 15 negatived 
parliament HILL 
is a race based society justifiable if those judged to possess special status just happen to be non - white ? 
Mr. Mike Scott 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
he also required that I pay it back . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
future growth rates forecast the aboriginal population will rise another 400,000 over the next generation . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
the Quebec legislation states that the collection of information from a third party cannot be done without the consent of the individual , except in certain very specific exceptional circumstances . 
Mrs. Suzanne Tremblay 
we are hoping that will not be necessary here and we look forward to a detailed , informed and open debate in the House on Bill C - 9 . 
we made a number of changes and announced them today in response to some of the advice of the safety nets advisory committee . 
it has cost us billions of dollars in TAGS adjustments . 
let us negotiate real self - government for first nations in Canada . 
honourable senators , I ask that all remaining items on the Order Paper stand in the order in which they are today . 
Mr. Speaker , I will respond again . 
as the first person of Chinese heritage to sit in this chamber , I hope to bring a unique perspective to bear on this issue , particularly on China ' s cultural and historic attributes and how they shape its approach to human rights . 
it is legal to use it in British Columbia and the residents of Canada are absolutely appalled . 
Adam earns almost $ 53,000 a year , which amounts to about $ 4,412 a month . 
government GRANTS 
there was no promise about the detailed contents of the bill . 
the member for Roberval accuses the federal government of wanting to make sure Quebec cannot " democratically " overcome certain obstacles . 
we all share a concern for the people who are challenged in finding jobs in the current economy , who have perhaps worked in an industry that has closed down . 
Quebec is indeed a desirable tourist destination . 
i believe the government should release from their commitment those who offered to raise money for the museum . 
committee Authorized to Permit Electronic Coverage 
the auditor general ' s report cites many examples of millions of dollars being spent on corporate welfare . 
there appears to be no basis for maintaining the contractual freedom currently enjoyed by water carriers . 
the second question is with regard to the seal hunt , which I agree would be a good idea and a good solution . 
that is what he said . 
yeas 
the minister has told us the federal government will try to look into this to discover what exactly happened . 
Mr. John Bryden 
moreover , a Sondagem survey carried out from March 20 to 24 found that 59.6 % of the population of Quebec was opposed to unions signing collective agreements which imposed working conditions and salaries on new employees that were less advantageous than those of existing employees , and 41.7 % of respondents reported that they would accept a cut in salary in order to make it easier for young people to enter the work force . 
who was the Minister of Justice at that time ? 
we want fairness . 
Mr. Michel Guimond ( Beauport - Montmorency - C ô te - de - Beaupr é - Î le - d ' Orl é ans , BQ ) : 
when I was preparing my speech for this morning , a comment I heard came to mind . 
abortion 
it can be argued that income insurance is something like a safety net underneath someone walking on a tightrope . 
the B.C. Liberal leader said " This is an unacceptable sleight to British Columbia and to all Canadians '' . 
there have been major improvements . 
as the minister will know , already in front of the Parliament buildings are several very large trucks , and the number is growing . 
Mr. Speaker , on the same point of order , I would first tell my colleague that , even if he cannot hear , he is not missing very much , because nothing too astonishing is being said - 
Mr. John Duncan 
Mr. Nelson Riis ( Kamloops , Thompson and Highland Valleys , NDP ) : 
rod Webb was an athlete , a war veteran , a small businessman , an electrician , a community builder , a politician and a family man . 
we have leveraged $ 2.7 million in private sector partnership - 
bill C - 202 sends a message that society has simply had enough of this carnage . 
food AND DRUGS ACT 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
nays 
it also involves farmers being on a level playing field with their competitors around the world and our efforts to achieve that level playing field for them . 
speech FROM THE THRONE 
i do not think it is impossible for the Bloc Quebecois to rally more sovereignty support , perhaps not separatism support , but sovereignty support . 
whose side are you on ? 
according to the motion , it is apparent that hon. members opposite are prepared to turn back the clock in a world that has evidently left them far behind . 
hence , as a result of a jurisdictional dispute between the Minister of Health at the provincial level and the Minister of Health at the federal level , these aboriginal children are frequently left living in the hospital because no services are provided to them when they return to their home community . 
Mr. Pat Martin ( Winnipeg Centre , NDP ) : 
i put the case forward that if we abolish the Senate we would encourage Canadians to petition us in the House of Commons to strike yet one more level of government that would cost all this money . 
employment INSURANCE 
Mr. Speaker , I ask you , how can we properly debate this fundamentally important issue to all Canadians and the Nisga ' a people when the matter is before the court ? 
they starve our emergency preparedness , too . 
as to the precise nature of how this will break down , I am sure the Minister of National Defence will be outlining that in more detail in the days and weeks ahead . 
it takes out as much as it possibly can , to the tune of $ 24 billion or $ 25 billion annually . 
this is perhaps why the Acadians were expressly excluded from the Treaty of Paris of 1763 and this illegal banishment has remained on the books . 
senator Bolduc and I attended many meetings where it was explained that it was not an economic issue so much as a political one , that it was believed that having the same money would force you to have some kind of a central government , that it would go hand in hand , that it would force the hands of national governments toward a central government . 
Mr. Bill Blaikie 
call in the members . 
in an era of globalization we are a multicultural society whose people have roots in almost every country of the world . 
she is suggesting that the member for Okanagan - Shuswap with an unemployment rate of 10.5 % in his riding , who received $ 800,000 for the creation of 46 jobs , was breaking the rules . 
next door , the Mount Sinai Hospital sees 25,000 women every year at their breast cancer clinic . 
the federal government stated in the throne speech that it will work with other levels of government and the private sector to reach agreement on a five year plan for improving physical infrastructure in urban and rural regions across the country by the end of the year 2000 . 
so why is this House considering going into the 21 st century proposing the same kind of system for Canada ' s aboriginal people ? 
national Hockey League - Possible New Lottery to Support Canadian Teams - Announcement by Minister 
as I said , Canada ' s involvement amounts to 2.5 % . 
first of all I commend the hon. member who has brought this motion forward . 
European Monetary Union 
what about the Governor General herself , who advised us when she came to this chamber that she arrived in Canada as a refugee from China ? 
if we try , do we really have the constitutional authority to do such a thing ? 
hon. Lowell Murray : 
this gives me an opportunity to put my views on the record and discuss the issue here in parliament . 
it will serve Alzheimer patients , geriatrics , the general population and the terminally ill . 
that is a choice that the current government of the Province of Nova Scotia made . 
the government will argue that it has put $ 500 million in such and such program . 
Mr. Ovid L . Jackson ( Bruce - Grey , Lib . ) : 
presently people do not have the right to know what may have infected their bodies from a third person , and Bill C - 244 would correct this . 
( motion agreed to ) 
motion No. 15 
indeed , Senator John Stewart would become , over his lengthy parliamentary career , the epitome of the wise and conscientious legislator imagined by David Hume centuries before - a legislator indefatigable in the pursuit of the right ; a legislator who understood the importance of vigilance in securing and protecting our free society ; a legislator committed to the public good ; a legislator who left nothing to chance ; a man who brought a razor - sharp mind and tremendous , tireless energy to the service of his community , to his students , to his province and to his country ; a thoughtful patriot who always understood , as the old saying goes , that those who expect to reap the blessings of freedom must undergo the fatigue of supporting it . 
all the government had to say is that philosophically agriculture is a very important component to this society , that it believes in a very strong , domestic supply of food for our country . 
to me this is a clear signal that the government is open to a proposal for a stand - alone institution . 
there is a whole notion of the bill that deals with the question of rehabilitation and trying to identify what is best depending on the situation we are dealing with . 
members 
now really . 
given the magnitude of the impact on reduced revenues of the government and utilization of the surplus that would otherwise exist , what exactly would the hon. member suggest we do in terms of either forgoing debt repayment or forgoing increases to health spending to be able to fund that significant tax reduction ? 
that being said , I believe that we must be cautious when drafting legislation on such a sensitive issue . 
Mr. John Duncan ( Vancouver Island North , Ref. ) : 
however , the bill demands that , before undertaking any negotiations that could lead to secession , the Government of Canada must be satisfied that the population of a province has clearly expressed its will to secede . 
i suppose they talked with each other . 
at the Samson Cree Band in Alberta , the chief and 12 councillors are paid $ 1.5 million in salaries and benefits . 
therefore , Your Honour , at the appropriate time , I would be prepared to move , seconded by Senator Lynch - Staunton , whose suggestion this is , that the office space formerly occupied by former senator MacEachen be provided in perpetuity to former Senator Stewart . 
let us come in at the end , not start at the beginning . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough 
while that statement may shock many in this city , and many more in Toronto , it is nevertheless true . 
there are other organizations , such as the Pacific Black Cod Fishermen ' s Association , which contributed $ 10,000 to the election fund . 
senator Taylor : 
on the other hand , the pardon granted to an individual convicted of an offence punishable by way of indictment is automatically cancelled . 
the throne speech mentions that Canada has a national government and yet the minister claims it is not a nation state . 
guess what ? 
bill Lawton states : " All in all I feel this is just an affront to democracy . 
generalizing in this way , saying that administration is bad on all reserves , is a disservice to aboriginal people , and to the white population as well . 
i do not know where that will lead , honourable senators , but it is important that we in Canada monitor this . 
it believed in dedicated taxes when it came to the air navigation system . 
since this situation is the outcome of the Minister of Transport ' s inability to come up with a true airline policy for Canada , what does he intend to do now , in light of the urgency of this situation ? 
agreed . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 97 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. John Herron : 
" transport Canada has failed to exercise the controls entrenched in the agreements under which these investments were made . 
hon. Don Boudria ( Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
could the member please give her comments on that matter ? 
as well , our experience in federalism , flawed as it may be , can be a contribution . 
the next question is on Motion No. 72 . 
* * * 
will the Prime Minister make the commitment today to move toward restoring the 50:50 health partnership so that Canadians can get the health care they need , whatever their financial circumstances or wherever they happen to live ? 
Mr. John Solomon : 
bill C - 212 does some of that and we are more than happy to support it . 
yeas 
Quebecers are entitled to know that they will not lose Canada without clearly renouncing it . 
Ms. Judy Wasylycia - Leis ( Winnipeg North Centre , NDP ) : 
why was the minister so unconcerned about the mismanagement of $ 1 billion that she just kept cutting cheques ? 
the official that the hon. member is referring to made that clear in a technical briefing today . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe ( Laurier - Sainte - Marie , BQ ) : 
agreed . 
honourable senators , because time stills the voices of the survivors , it is incumbent on us to speak out on the lessons of the Holocaust as parliamentarians , as community leaders , and , indeed , as members of the human race . 
Mr. Speaker , the Nisga ' a agreement is an affront to the notion of equality . 
of all the assets we can bring to the table , including our own efforts , the knowledge base and the provinces , the greatest assets surely are the communities themselves . 
that would be a real commitment to building our future , but instead we saw again the lofty ideas and the clouds passing by in the sky in terms of the Liberals ' ideas of what the future is . 
senator Kirby , the sponsor of the bill , may well want to address this question when he closes debate on second reading . 
i hope he will quickly change his course in this matter , as in others , and attend to his mandate as Minister of the Environment . 
we were very pleased with the way they responded to our requests . 
the department of Indian affairs was forced in over 150 cases to intervene in the management of aboriginal reserves . 
however , they need a credible , decent amount of money and investment on the part of the government which committed long ago to this very effort . 
Mr. Jim Abbott ( Kootenay - Columbia , Ref. ) : 
i think we would have a lot stronger country for it . 
however , the flaws are not only in the agreement but also in the process . 
how can be we be sure the medical treatment is intended to alleviate pain , even though it may shorten life ? 
nuclear AMENDMENT ACT , 1998 
you will not hear me congratulate you when I see provincial governments taking their cue from federal disengagement from these minorities , downloading responsibilities , and thus wiping out or threatening the gains francophones have made . 
* * * 
* * * 
we are all aware of the claims that e - commerce will change the way that Canada does business . 
if the hon. member has a particular case that he feels has been adjudicated outside the act , I would be glad to look at it . 
hon. Allan Rock 
when we formed the government , we were forced to cut them a few years later , but now we are back to the same level as in 1993 - 94 . 
if any other party wants to have more speaking time then it should elect more seats in the House of Commons . 
we would like to find a way to assess the financial impact of regulations pursued by the government when it comes to patent medicine . 
members 
it says : 
this is the same Prime Minister who told Canadians if they did not like paying high taxes , they should just move . 
senator Prud ' homme : 
that the Senate of Canada affirm its Royal Assent procedure in the Senate described by parliamentary authorities Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy " The Canadian ceremony seems to be that which most closely resembles the original . " ; 
in previous reports it has been stated that HRDC has been unable to monitor what was going on to ensure the money was being spent wisely . 
the question is not where the money was spent but how the money was given out . 
indeed , full and complete discussion papers have been circulated by government officials to all interested parties , and the main elements of what is now Bill S - 17 have already received wide stakeholder approval and interest . 
he made wide ranging generalizations and I am going to respond to every one of them . 
legally however , based on the existing legislation , we can only conclude that the federal government does not have jurisdiction over the floor of the St. Lawrence River . 
the member stated that the Reform Party was blocking , preventing , or stopping the witnesses from speaking . 
i call upon Canada and all nations who are signatories to the Cairo Programme of Action to honour their commitment to put basic human needs of girls , men and women - 
business OF THE HOUSE 
the government must ensure that there is greater competition within the system and that producers receive the benefits through lower transportation costs . 
this is the situation with the petition I am tabling today , a petition started as part of an awareness campaign by Biotech Action Montr é al , as well as by Nadine Bachand and Pascal Martel . 
i have just picked a couple of highways that are particularly infamous for their problems . 
No. 
beyond these questions the official opposition , along with Canadians , is wondering why the government has not focused more constructively on plan A , that is to say why the Liberals are stubbornly refusing to make effective changes to the federal system . 
a thorough review is in order . 
the next question is on Motion No. 387 . 
the responsibility of a member of parliament or a member of a committee is to keep oneself appraised of the details of administration . 
madam Speaker , I have another petition from constituents who are calling on parliament to fund the national highway system in the 2000 budget to reduce fatalities and injuries on roadways . 
despite these many changes , the Minister of Canadian Heritage has seen fit to introduce even further amendments that we will be discussing later . 
nays 
i see my time is up , Mr. Speaker , but I want to ask one question of the government opposite . 
hon. John Manley : 
if we could set aside in many cases the political partisanship that occupies the House much too often at times and simply work for the best interest of the people of the country , I think we could reduce the cost and stop many of the games that occur in the House . 
some hon. members : 
under the Constitution , secession requires that an amendment be negotiated . 
we have to look beyond the federation to see how the system can be better while being reminded that this is a Canadian institution . 
it trivializes many of the very important things we believe in . 
the NISA program has been in place for many years . 
why would the member not want the Nisga ' a people to have individual property rights just as other Canadians enjoy ? 
hon. Senators : 
will there be new money for desperate prairie farmers ? 
the manager did not deliver . 
the government decided to speed up the process and hurry the bill through in the fall . 
a meeting of the ministers does not mean consultation of the provinces . 
indeed Lord Robertson , the secretary general of NATO , said that when called upon , Canada has always been there . 
i live there with my husband and four children . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
what kind of a country would we have ? 
that is when I began to research this issue to seek out a solution . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron ( Verch è res - Les - Patriotes , BQ ) : 
not everyone is happy about it . 
i would ask honourable senators to strike the motion from the Order Paper in an effort to put things in order . 
( division 569 ) 
a number of non - governmental organizations have condemned the fact that slavery is practised openly . 
members 
that is even if they are not asking for a dime in tax breaks and slush funds . 
i refer to the report by Justice Jasmin addressing the young offender issue . 
i would if I were them because so far in this debate I have not been able to get out of the Leader of the Opposition what he would do if he were the Government of Canada as it relates to aboriginal people ' s rights in section 35 . 
i am certainly prepared to make inquiries specifically with regard to that question and return to the chamber with the information for the honourable senator as quickly as possible . 
yeas 
when it comes to people needing health and safety protection , and environmental protection , the government shunts them off to some subcommittee of a subcommittee of a working group because it knows that nothing will happen . 
i will inform my colleagues as soon as possible . 
i always thought , honourable senators , that citizenship was a unique aspect of life in Canada , that it was open to every Canadian regardless of birth , race , or tradition . 
was it delivery of direct medical services ? 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
he knew the amount of fish going out of there . 
motion No. 15 
leave having been given to revert to Government Notices of Motions : 
( the House divided on Motion No. 197 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
SAMUEL DE CHAMPLAIN DAY ACT 
Mr. Mac Harb : 
* * * 
i propose to change this offence so that it applies to the abduction of all children under the age of 16 years . 
i am sorry he is no longer in the chamber ; he may not understand the situation . 
Mr. Speaker , I was notified immediately . 
my question is for the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs . 
contributions to both design and funding come from farmers themselves , from the federal government and from all the provincial governments . 
until the 1911 revolution , at least the imperial censorate was in the position to criticize the emperors exercise of power . 
Mr. Speaker , I remind the minister that opposition parties are here to get to the bottom of it , and it is policy on the run over there . 
i will talk about that later , as well as the many other serious issues which are involved . 
absolutely not . 
Mr. Peter MacKay : 
the rate of children living in poverty has increased . 
messages of support were forthcoming from all sides . 
if we were to move on in this subject matter , a very important question that the committee will need to study on this particular bill - because this issue is causing me enormous distress - is at what point in the development of the Constitution of Canada did those newly acquired provincial powers get converted into the powers to promote and now , by Bill C - 20 , to negotiate the disunion of Canada ? 
the operating cost of the vessel , the cost of the prime rib , the salmon , the booze , including the four cases of expensive wine , were all paid for by the good old hospitable coast guard , on behalf of the Canadian taxpayer of course . 
it is my understanding that a person is supposed to rise in his or her place to be counted for a vote . 
thinking of my own region , the oldest cities are barely 100 years old . 
the first clause of this bill concerns the question that the national assembly could or would ask Quebecers about their political future . 
how does he explain the fact that 75 % of all the projects going to his riding were handed out just before the election or just after it other than by the fact that they resulted in a political turnaround , getting him elected when he would otherwise have lost ? 
i would like to talk now about what the official opposition proposes as a solution to a system that has proven itself to be ineffective and in fact harmful to aboriginals and non - aboriginals alike . 
Mr. Antoine Dub é 
first she said everything was really well managed and that she was just proud as punch of it . 
he protested and continued to repeat his allegations in an attempt to have the RCMP reopen and continue the case , yet they fell upon deaf ears . 
however , the international community is still opposed to self - determination . 
prayers 
can we make laws about having two price wheat or a two price energy system ? 
we have to reduce our massive national debt . 
madam Speaker , we have before us a motion that would lead to the establishment of a legislative committee of the House to prepare and bring in a bill to remedy what the hon. member refers to as the weaknesses of the Privacy Act . 
forget the bill . 
in Ms. Hervieux - Payette ' s suit , the personal is buried in a huge number of allegations that have nothing personally to do with the senator . 
the finance committee has travelled across the country hearing from every group of the political spectrum . 
it only becomes a statute once it has received royal assent and then it needs proclamation by His Excellency pursuant to an order in council , unless it is in the bill , in order to become law . 
however , we cannot leave it at that . 
the hon. member should know that the Government of Canada has not put forward its position . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
resuming debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P . C . , seconded by the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P . C . ( L ' Acadie - Acadia ) , for the second reading of Bill S - 3 , to implement an agreement , conventions and protocols between Canada and Kyrgyzstan , Lebanon , Algeria , Bulgaria , Portugal , Uzbekistan , Jordan , Japan and Luxembourg for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income . 
job Creation Programs - Possible Mismanagement of Funds - Responsibility of Minister 
it is time the Liberals put some of that money back into roads instead of ripping off the taxpayers yet again . 
since no Canadian senators had been invited to or even informed of this conference , I agreed that our presence was necessary . 
we do not and we cannot . 
CHINESE NEW YEAR 
i am surprised that the member is so oversimplifying this issue of tax . 
Mr. Mauril B é langer ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Canadian Heritage , Lib . ) : 
the United Mine Workers of America and the other unions at Devco are hoping that the federal government will see fit to allow them to mine that coal over the next few years so that the men so employed will have sufficient years to gain their pension rights at the end of the two - year period . 
four years later that deficit was gone . 
hon. St é phane Dion ( President of the Queen ' s Privy Council for Canada and Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs , Lib . ) : 
honourable senators , unfortunately , I have not had the opportunity to read , nor did I hear , the statement made by the President of Inter - Canadian Airlines . 
in fact , I fully expect that there will be considerable work done today , at least if all goes according to plan . 
members 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
Mr. Ted McWhinney : 
paired 
Mr. Scott Brison ( Kings - Hants , PC ) : 
no tax cuts , just a commitment to spend a whole lot more . 
i would ask him to do so now . 
senator Oliver : 
Ms. Sophia Leung 
Mr. David Chatters ( Athabasca , Ref. ) : 
the Speaker : 
MacDonald continues : 
this bill sets out ahead of time the process the present Government of Canada believes would be the appropriate process for any federal government to follow if it were confronted with a strong secessionist movement , and a referendum . 
Mr. Peter MacKay : 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
that is exactly why AIDA has not worked . 
* * * 
* * * 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
i think he misquoted the Acting Speaker yesterday . 
the reality was that although the federal tax take out of my wallet and the wallets of my neighbours was not diminished , and the tax take out of my wallet and the wallets of my neighbours by the province was not diminished , the government ended up downloading it to the regional district in which I lived , which was the equivalent of a municipality . 
when will she start by firing herself and sending that signal ? 
members 
members 
the committee listened to many , many witnesses , but this legislation hardly reflects what was heard and what was decided by the parliamentary committee . 
it gives the courts the power to impose adult sentences where serious crimes have been committed . 
i wish to thank and congratulate my colleague , the Minister of Labour , for her tremendous dedication and hard work in preparing for the government a plan of action to deal with the problem of homelessness . 
that Vote 10 a in the amount of $ 1,775,100 , under JUSTICE - Canadian Human Rights Commission - Program expenditures , in the Supplementary Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2000 , be concurred in . 
it will also continue to support innovation and the development of new technologies in leading export sectors such as agriculture , agri - food and natural resources . 
those amendments would lead to uncertainty because they would make Bill C - 9 inconsistent with the Nisga ' a treaty . 
i am asking the minister to commit to never doing that again , allow the committee to do its work - 
that is not what we do . 
members 
deciding what is necessary must be done by politicians in true partnership with the citizens . 
yeas 
concerning the relations between Ren é L é vesque and aboriginal peoples , like all Quebecers I have much respect for Mr. L é vesque and his approach to aboriginal peoples . 
the Bryan case proves that it is totally wrong on this count . 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit 
she alone is responsible for that . 
why does it take the provinces to bring this to the finance minister ' s attention , a problem that everyone recognizes except the finance minister and the government ? 
next Wednesday we will likely debate Bill C - 11 , respecting the Cape Breton Development Corporation . 
Mr. Alexandre Cyr , member of parliament for Gasp é until 1965 , proposed this form of pledge to the Canadian flag . 
agricultural co - operatives play a major role in Canadian economy : in grains , oilseeds , dairy , poultry and eggs , livestock , fruits and vegetables . 
we have often liberated the country from the straitjacket of false federalism of the Liberal Party of Canada . 
Bestowal by University of Toronto of Honorary Doctoral Degree 
the place was so vast , it felt like our Parliament buildings could be placed in one room , and there were three rooms of that size . 
if there any exceptions , I don ' t want to know about them . 
Mr. Andr é Bachand ( Richmond - Arthabaska , PC ) : 
Mr. Beno î t Sauvageau 
Mr. Speaker , it is great that I get a question . 
the lobsters come to change their shells , to moult . 
hon. B . Alasdair Graham : 
i began my career as a lawyer just as the Young Offenders Act was introduced and became law . 
we are in a demographic situation where the population in Quebec and Canada is getting older . 
what does this mean , cuts of $ 21 billion , in practical terms . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
Mr. Grant McNally 
does the minister not think that his federalist status quo operating so wonderfully is centralizing and standardizing Canada , as exemplified in the bill on young offenders ? 
but for middle income families that are losing up to half of their income to government , it does matter a lot and it matters that the government is planning a nearly $ 50 billion spending spree . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
i heard a statement which said that the minister was insulting Quebecers because he thought that the result was not clear and that was why we needed some clarity in this . 
i hope that in his role of Leader of the Government in the Senate the minister will show some leadership and bring those matters before this chamber . 
Mr. Ren é Laurin ( Joliette , BQ ) : 
nays 
he also looked at the mechanism known as an Advance Contract Award Notice , or ACAN . 
due to the number of responses today , I ask that all three starred questions be printed in Hansard as read . 
i wonder what the Alberta politicians would say about the consultation on Bill C - 4 , the space station and the implications for the people of Alberta . 
they are falling between the cracks . 
national PARKS 
i believe that if we looked back and asked ourselves what magazine subscription did we buy , or where did we last use our visa card , we might be able to account for what is coming through our door , in our mail and over our telephones , and we would not be so surprised . 
hon. Mira Spivak : 
( the House divided on Motion No. 90 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
my colleague , we are dealing with Motion No. 221 . 
all the members of the advisory board are appointed by , who else ? 
i took the information provided by this audit seriously . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
the government has the power to stop the Klein monster it created with its transfer cuts and lack of leadership . 
on behalf of the people of Etobicoke - Lakeshore I am proud to extend my hearty congratulations to both Dr. Agar and Mrs. Pearce for a job well done . 
when we deal with young people in particular we cannot divorce the two . 
i must also recognize people like Yolande Redcalf , Greg Twoyoungmen , Rita King , Edwin One Owl , Roy Littlechief , Mike Calder , Laura Deedza and Debbie Neepoose , just to name a few . 
as well , since we have been in government , the - 
it is time for the committees to do their work . 
members 
miss Deborah Grey 
Mr. Speaker , Canada has been very actively involved over several months to get a resolution that would recognize the humanitarian need as well as the need for arms inspection . 
i wonder if the member would agree with that . 
Mr. Speaker , I was not really intending to speak in this particular debate , but I am one of those on this side who happens to be doing his House duty today . 
we understand the agencies will be reporting twice annually . 
call in the members . 
Mr. Speaker , again I say that the people of Quebec and the people of Canada do not want to hear about a third referendum . 
nays 
the provisions of the legislation having to do with the issuing of warrants are adapted to the particular characteristics of the military context . 
let me mention in passing that the Prime Minister , who apparently spends more time in the Ottawa area than at his cottage at Saint - Jean - des - Piles , I think , voted in that riding . 
i have consulted leading ethicists , including the Catholic Health Association of Canada and the Care - in - Dying Coalition / Canadian Coalition Against Euthanasia , which comprises 30 organizations across Canada , advocating compassionate , just and respectful care for people who are dying . 
to my mind , if those initiatives do not meet the profitability test as to cutting out the profitability of the activities of organized crime , then we probably have to ask ourselves whether that is well spent money . 
as a Privy Council analysis noted , and it is interesting that this analysis was written by a member of this chamber who happens to be on the other side now : 
some hon. members : 
but what does this bill intend to do ? 
let us not batter away at each other . 
the $ 30 billion in the pension fund for public servants , and members of the armed forces and the RCMP , do not belong to the government . 
is there unanimous consent ? 
and it was done without a referendum . 
it left it out . 
for example , in 1997 British Columbia amended numerous statutes to include same sex partners . 
Mr. Bill Blaikie ( Winnipeg - Transcona , NDP ) : 
Mr. Jean - Guy Chr é tien 
as I said , I represent an inner city riding and so does the member for Winnipeg North Centre . 
i walked those streets for 42 years and I have never , ever sensed the tension that is in my part of the province . 
resuming debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hays , seconded by the Honourable Senator Mercier : 
Mr. Derek Lee ( Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
of all the things he could trace from his ancestors , who came from France to Quebec , later emigrating to Michigan and then to Saskatchewan , this was the family ' s pride . 
reference the delay in reopening Parliament this fall . 
i can say from long experience if there were problems in the bill , I for one would have received a call because I am in constant contact with my municipal colleagues . 
it is indeed unfortunate that the other opposition parties are permitting this action to occur without a whisper of condemnation . 
second , not to bog down in procedure , and , I hope , not setting a precedent in sending a bill to more than one committee , I do not see how the Speaker is authorized to send , during Routine Proceedings , a report that has not even been debated in this place from one committee to the next . 
members 
in fact there is one such member , the right hon. member for Saint - Maurice , the Prime Minister of Canada , who said in 1985 " If ever I am prime minister the first thing I will do is introduce proportional representation '' . 
hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier , pursuant to notice of December 15 , 1999 , moved : 
i would like to hear from the CEOs of the Canadian oil companies , by fax , at ( 613 ) 996 - 0828 , within a week . 
that is why we have done what we have done . 
introduction and first reading 
Mr. Deepak Obhrai 
motion No. 440 negatived 
some hon. members : 
the next question is on Motion No. 32 . 
i also want to talk about something that strikes very close to home with me , Lou Gehrig ' s disease . 
European countries are so concerned right now with what has been happening with the dollars from the IMF supporting Asian shipyards that they have initiated a court action against the Daewoo shipyard . 
we were told that someone should look into all the people from Vancouver who go to Montreal , and all the people from Montreal who go to Vancouver . 
Tuesday , November 23 , 1999 
i would like to talk about what is happening in my part of the country , which I think is happening in other parts of the country as well . 
Mr. Speaker , the fact remains that of the well over 1,000 projects that were part of the transitional jobs fund in the Prime Minister ' s riding , in my riding and the riding of members of parliament across the country , people are working that would not have had the opportunity otherwise . 
that the Committee have the power to engage the services of such counsel and other professional , technical , clerical and other personnel as may be necessary for the purposes of its examination ; 
members 
( division 312 ) 
Mr. Jean - Paul Marchand : 
they see a danger that this bill would impede collaboration between the public and private sectors with regard to the delivery or funding of health care . 
its 1986 municipal act actually gave municipalities more independence , lessened the supervision of provincial authorities , and deregulated the processes of municipal councils which operate along partisan lines as well . 
senator Lynch - Staunton : 
perhaps we could revisit that issue at the same time that we are visiting the question of committees sitting when the Senate is sitting . 
Mr. Lynn Myers : 
senator Andreychuk : 
the programming is now in place , administered by the existing granting councils until such time as the CIHR is officially established . 
our party will continue to support the treaty . 
Mr. Speaker , the hon. member gives me a chance yet again to talk about the undertakings in my department to fix the administrative deficiencies . 
all those in favour will please say yea . 
what is lacking in the system is the will of the correctional service to implement its own procedures . 
hon. Senators : 
honourable senators , I will turn for a moment to the matter of who shall determine the clarity of the question . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I was privileged to have had the opportunity to participate in the formation of the new Canadian alliance . 
will the Prime Minister recognize that this draft bill is unique and that it is a paradox , since Ottawa will enjoy all the flexibility , while Quebec will have all the constraints ? 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
the intent is to obstruct and impede members of parliament . 
i declare Motion No. 426 lost . 
every time a senator is stuck on television or stopped by a group of students , journalists or otherwise , what do we say ? 
by improving our physical infrastructure for the 21 st century we will not only aid trade and economic growth , we will ensure that we have clean air and water . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
they are going down that road of communal property which is a failed policy . 
it is Wednesday and since it is also our first full sitting day , we will now begin by singing O Canada under the direction of the member for Wentworth - Burlington . 
i believe that if Quebecers were to say no , they would have the option and the freedom to leave this country . 
he urged government to strengthen laws against violence . 
we recently heard assurances , regarding the Elections Act , that privacy would be maintained in that system . 
that is wonderful . 
second , Chanukah signifies the right of minorities , indeed of peoples everywhere , to live in peace and in dignity with particular respect for the inherent dignity of the human person and the equal dignity of all persons . 
hon. Don Boudria 
let us take something else that is completely ridiculous , the publication of names . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 113 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
hon. Paul Martin 
CANADIAN BILL OF RIGHTS 
i think that the native peoples have told me they wish to be heard . 
Mr. Stan Keyes 
for mechanics with employment expenses comparable to those incurred by other employees this would be unwarranted as tax relief for normal employment expenses is provided through the basic personal amount . 
Mr. Pierre de Savoye 
all we have to do is make sure that the entitlement to the help is not tied to things like race , culture , language or religion . 
Mr. Preston Manning ( Leader of the Opposition , Ref. ) : 
in addition to this , we have allocated another $ 68 million to fund sustainable economic development initiatives in Cape Breton . 
Mr. Speaker , the hon. member will be very pleased to know that yesterday , Sunday , while many of us were lulling around , our Minister of Transport and the Quebec minister of transportation were seriously discussing the situation regarding regional carriers in Quebec , especially InterCanadian . 
if not all parties then most parties in the House have made good efforts . 
government ORDERS 
Mr. Speaker , the minister responsible for homelessness promised action . 
even the most conservative research estimates show that for every $ 1 invested in children , there are $ 2 saved in health , social program , educational and criminal justice costs . 
i declare Motion No. 455 lost . 
federal GOVERNMENT 
hon. Ralph E . Goodale ( Minister of Natural Resources and Minister responsible for the Canadian Wheat Board , Lib . ) : 
it has been said that the great contribution of the Senate is its work related to the improvement of legislation and its work in committees . 
members 
Mr. Leon E . Benoit 
senator Lynch - Staunton : 
Mr. Stan Dromisky ( Thunder Bay - Atikokan , Lib . ) : 
( the House divided on Motion No. 333 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Speaker , it is a pleasure for me to rise on behalf of the constituents of Calgary East to introduce my private member ' s bill in the House today . 
my question is for the Minister of Human Resources Development . 
a modern health information system will make health information more accessible to professionals and our citizens . 
Mr. Myron Thompson ( Wild Rose , Ref. ) : 
i want to remind the public of that for one very good reason . 
that means that 50 years from now we will still be a country of 31 million people , roughly the same size as Minneapolis . 
i heard you say Mr. Manley for Mr. Boudria , Mr. Boudria not being present . 
social SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES RESEARCH COUNCIL 
Mr. Rahim Jaffer 
they were all contest envelopes . 
" ( f ) subject to subsection ( 6 ) , for statistical , or scholarly study or " 
agreed . 
political contracts were awarded by the Canada Information Office , which is another government agency . 
so it had to find that there were no competition problems . 
Mr. Paul Cr ê te : 
we have already dealt with the first part of this in the request for unanimous consent , which was not forthcoming . 
conference on Women ' s Equality and Participation in Public Life 
i would like the member to hear the speech he made . 
nays 
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore : 
because it is province to province the federal government has to be involved . 
members 
contents 
Mr. Speaker , the Minister of the Environment failed to take responsibility and show leadership in protecting Canada ' s water resources . 
members 
reformers on the other hand call for a phased clear - cut reduction in the dependence of the agricultural sector on both levels of government . 
to them I say that there is nothing more symbolic than our attachment to the Crown , the Governor General , and the red robes of our Supreme Court judges . 
rather than just shrugging his shoulders and letting him run away , Tim chased after the thief and tackled and held him until the police arrived . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe ( Laurier - Sainte - Marie , BQ ) : 
the Senate adjourned until Wednesday , November 3 , 1999 , at 1:30 p.m. 
the CTC , by the way , has 62 employees in Ottawa . 
nays 
firearms 
there are other issues that the agency and the bureau cannot deal with . 
i would also challenge this member on his comments as to whether a company should be allowed to go into bankruptcy . 
it is very predictable . 
for example , take the case of an elderly women living with her son and daughter - in - law . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
here we are 10 years later and what progress is there ? 
senator Lynch - Staunton : 
an hon. member : 
they want to bring the foundation ' s unique perspective to the work of the committee . 
although the Nisga ' a constitution makes reference to the charter , it is the wording of the proviso : " Bearing in mind the free and democratic nature of Nisga ' a government " under section 6 ( 2 ) , which is the most disconcerting to me . 
members 
Mr. Mac Harb ( Ottawa Centre , Lib . ) moved for leave to introduce Bill C - 349 , an act to amend the Competition Act ( vertically integrated gasoline suppliers ) . 
madam Speaker , I have heard some interventions in my day but that one certainly took the cake . 
* * * 
Mr. Michel Gauthier 
my department has made it a priority . 
bill C - 2 was developed within the framework of a non - partisan process . 
should the House sit tomorrow we would propose to call Bill C - 10 , followed by the Senate amendments to Bill C - 7 . 
nobody can doubt the commitment of the current government to preserve and promote cultural diversity both in Canada and abroad . 
senator Stewart took his responsibilities very seriously . 
they only need to look at the west coast and review the Musqueam land battles . 
Tuesday , December 7 , 1999 
senator Tkachuk : 
Mr. Speaker , looking at the facts fairly , it looks very damning for the Prime Minister . 
one only has to look at the history of the Sydney Steel mills and the Sydney Tar Ponds to see the potential environmental liability could be much higher . 
we are caught in a stranglehold that will never loosen '' , said Louise Paquet , the president of the activist group , who has been preparing to make a statement for months , adding that it could not have occurred at a better time . 
members 
under the present circumstances , the government and the members across should be able to help stimulate the flow of a little more money from the province , considering that their party is now sleeping with the NDP . 
this could be called taxation on automatic pilot . 
i now want to outline how the Nisga ' a government will operate , because I think the agreement demonstrates how effective and accountable aboriginal government can be negotiated and how practical and workable arrangements can be established . 
Mr. Pierre de Savoye 
we will continue to invest in research and development so that the industry will be further strengthened by adopting new technologies which enhance food production and help the industry to develop new products and technologies that allow new uses to be made of existing products . 
will the government abandon this dangerous bill ? 
all that was forgotten . 
$ 200 million to double the current annual budget for RRAP ... 
- of the accountability of corporate executives and directors for the wrongful or negligent acts of the corporation and should introduce in the Parliament of Canada such amendments to legislation as are necessary to ensure that corporate executives and directors are held properly accountable for workplace safety . 
nays 
agreed . 
the Government will also continue to extend Canada ' s national parks system . 
hon. Lucienne Robillard 
and the bells having rung : 
now he insults them by calling their work bungles in the jungle . 
the Speaker : 
taxes , including payroll taxes , were a deterrent . 
Mr. Mark Assad 
we should ask them if they are better off now that their access to fish is not based on conservation rather than ethnicity . 
is the minister not demonstrating a considerable lack of knowledge of the issues when he tells this House that InterCanadian ' s difficulties are linked to its acquisition of Air Atlantic ? 
Mr. Bill Casey ( Cumberland - Colchester , PC ) : 
the first petition requests that parliament pass legislation recognizing human fetuses as persons . 
since the agreements have previously been tabled in this House , the motions in amendment should refer specifically to the tabled documents . 
if a person asks a question , it is surely because that person wants to hear an answer . 
it is very difficult to retain people in this country . 
i hope the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs is not very proud of himself . 
i have no doubt that it will bring in closure when it goes committee . 
these elected representatives have a mandate to look at what is in the best interest of the country , be it national or regional , and to make decisions which reflect a concern that the result of this decision will not result in more conflict for years to come . 
they have built ocean - going canoes , great totems , masks , horn spoons and many of the implements of everyday life . 
she can laugh and be smug all she wants , but if she has an ounce of pride left , she should resign . 
Mr. Speaker , the throne speech noted the particular vulnerability of the environment in the north and that the proposed diamond mine in Northwest Territories would drain a lake at the headwaters of the Coppermine River . 
everything that is done in agriculture creates an energy cost . 
he said , and I agree , that the answer to racism lies in education and discussion - people have to learn about each other to begin to understand each other . 
No. 
in that environment , I grew not only to respect Ron but to really like him . 
Mr. Speaker , during question period , I quoted from a National Assembly motion on the Young Offenders Act . 
hon. Lucienne Robillard 
i draw attention to the recent statistics demonstrating that youth crime overall has been in decline in Canada . 
however , when we see how little it recognizes the role of the provinces in this bill , which puts them on the same footing as all the other players , we know it does not want to recognize the crucial role provincial governments must play , namely to properly plan for the management and organization of health care services . 
hon. P . Derek Lewis ( The Hon. the Acting Speaker ) : 
our ability to work out our differences has been recognized by our neighbour to the south . 
importantly , the changes we are bringing forward confer benefits and obligations on same sex couples . 
he is quite right . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 34 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mrs. Madeleine Dalphond - Guiral 
Ms. Aileen Carroll ( Barrie - Simcoe - Bradford , Lib . ) : 
yet , they have good attendance . 
yet we find that it is business as usual now that the Liberals are in government . 
my focus will be on reinvigorating the peace process after wide consultations with Canadian NGOs , academics , the Sudanese community in Canada , and envoys of sister countries that support the mediation process , as well as with the government and the armed opposition of Sudan . 
conversely , the Prime Minister maintains that allegations of his involvement are based on no facts at all . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien : 
yet all of those appeals were left unheard by the Liberal majority on the committee . 
this was a closed door negotiation process with the victims having no say whether they liked it or not . 
( the House divided on the amendment to the amendment , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Ted White ( North Vancouver , Ref. ) : 
what else happens in any kind of a commission ? 
Mr. Beno î t Sauvageau ( Repentigny , BQ ) : 
governments of the world were forced to back off . 
does the hon. member have the unanimous consent of the House ? 
that Bill C - 2 be amended by adding after line 2 on page 143 the following new clause : 
how are we going to police , monitor and keep track of all the individuals in the 301 ridings who have certain skills and items they want to contribute in terms of their capabilities ? 
i am very pleased that the new Canadian alliance has that in its policies , as did the Reform Party . 
Mr. Jim Pankiw 
come clean ! 
the headlines indicated that the majority report was calling for about $ 46 billion in tax relief . 
we have managed to achieve a balanced budget . 
Mr. Speaker , I have the honour to present two petitions today on behalf of the residents of Prince George - Peace River . 
i am here on behalf of many Canadians to ask questions ; logical questions I hope . 
* * * 
the government cut $ 21 billion in transfers to the provinces . 
there is the whole idea of society , culture and health of the population which can be a part of any integrated system of research . 
with the opening of parliament delayed by three whole weeks for the government to get this just right , we all waited with bated breath for this wonderful vision to come forward . 
Mr. Speaker , it is always with a lot of pride that we in the Bloc Quebecois are called to speak as representatives of Quebec ' s heartland . 
it is more than relevant . 
respectfully submitted , 
most of my comments this morning have dealt with the personal side of taxation . 
when Nisga ' a becomes the pattern , as it must for future land claims agreements , we will end up with a situation where the average citizen of British Columbia will be excluded from entering what is now the public domain in the same respect that people in my part of Canada are now excluded from entering Indian reserves . 
will those members who object to the motion please rise in their places . 
this was the only section of the previous young offenders act that they would like to see changed . 
frigates manufactured in Canada are the best in the world . 
transport 
i think the time has come to correct that . 
an ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE REQUIREMENT FOR CLARITY AS SET OUT IN THE OPINION OF THE SUPREME COURT OF CANADA IN THE QUEBEC SECESSION REFERENCE 
this will also end arbitrary actions for once and for all . 
we are sitting here on the edge of our seats in anticipation that it will happen , but will it happen ? 
would you like a copy of the order paper sent to you ? 
( division 152 ) 
paired 
we were told that there were three airstrips and only one was in use . 
they want to talk about taxation levels . 
the funding we obtain from the sale enables us to take the research further . 
i withdraw it , Mr. Speaker . 
Ottawa regularly welcomes heads of states from all over the world . 
members 
Ms. Libby Davies 
Mr. Pierre de Savoye : 
paired 
if the Prime Minister really believes in helping Canadian youth , then why is he turning his back on farm children ? 
i ran across the same thing when I was a police officer . 
perhaps you would give the translators time to understand what is being said by the Chair in order for the translation to come through . 
when the Fathers of Confederation were assembling the Senate of Canada , they intended that it would be the Senate of Canada which would embody the federal principle . 
there is a fine balance as we move to the new technologies . 
that information has been supplied to Senator Sparrow and to all honourable senators who participated in the committee ' s work . 
national HIGHWAY POLICY 
he said it the other day in question period under his breath . 
Mr. John Harvard 
fisheries 
if plan A and plan B are to be presented they must be presented in balance , with plan A representing reform of the federation with the priority being given to communicating it to those who are searching for a third way . 
for example , some of the changes to the Young Offenders Act that have occurred recently in the new youth criminal justice act were largely brought about by members of our party . 
you could be right , Mr. Speaker . 
we have not been challenged by many Mexican companies but we have been by American companies . 
it does not go as far as some of my constituents would have liked . 
it was not because we caved in . 
i would be pleased to have one of them call me in the interests of urgency and speed and tell me why they cannot reinstate that program and continue that funding . 
maybe we should ask ourselves questions . 
child Pornography 
we will recall also that the Prime Minister went to Auschwitz at the beginning of this year . 
* * * 
i would seek the unanimous consent of the House , since we have the minister here speaking at third reading on the Nisga ' a treaty , to have a 10 minute question and answer period with the minister . 
Mr. Speaker , we are required to do so by the supreme court opinion that the Bloc Quebecois and the PQ government praised for over a year . 
motion No. 128 
in fact , the minister ' s position , and that of the government , is that the measures I have mentioned will be implemented and the government will be monitoring the situation there on an ongoing basis . 
this is not the first time I have been disappointed in this party . 
i ask for unanimous consent in that regard . 
hear , hear . 
Mr. Speaker , contrary to what the House leader has just said , in Quebec , returning officers are appointed by the director general of elections following a province wide competition . 
farmers have produced near record crops this year . 
these incidents have tarnished the reputations of the Canadian Army and of its justice system in the eyes of the public . 
senator Cohen : 
the government is driven by a will to improve the quality of life of Canadians and has made a number of commitments regarding strategic investments , which include , of course , economic investments , but also social ones . 
senator Cools : - sits in the House of Lords . 
in all my years in the public sector , I have never seen a more disturbing challenge to the rights of parliamentarians . 
hon. Allan Rock ( Minister of Health , Lib . ) : 
members 
they provide as follows : 
the question is whether this bill fills that two - scale need . 
we heard from the chair of Vancouver Board of Trade and from the chair of Canadian National Railway . 
there is still about eight minutes left for questions and comments following the speech from the hon. member for South Shore . 
there is another clause here that spells out that young people who are victims of the crime committed by the young offender are not allowed to have their identities released either and nothing should be done to identify those young people . 
prisons 
yeas 
pollution OF DRINKING WATER 
we need to do more . 
members 
while we are now more familiar with AIDS , it still elicits strong prejudice . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 59 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
we will try to improve it with the best interest of Canadian citizens in mind . 
agreed . 
that sounds pretty wimpy to me . 
motion agreed to and report placed on the Orders of the Day for consideration later this day . 
with an appreciation for our past , boldness of vision and the courage to act , we can take what is clearly the best country in the world in which to live and make it better for everyone . 
Ms. Louise Hardy 
Mr. Bill Blaikie ( Winnipeg - Transcona , NDP ) : 
they point out the fact that there is a $ 50 million price tag attached to this . 
the bureaucrats yesterday , when being questioned by the media , stated that there are pockets of unemployment within that riding . 
with President Nixon ' s departure and changes in the Soviet Union , to some extent those plans for co - operation and formation of a single international space agency were put on ice . 
as I recall , that decision received approbation from the Premier of Quebec . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
some hon. members : 
i will not abuse this privilege today . 
in addition , clause 12 of the bill provides that , within the five years following the act ' s coming into force , a committee of the Senate or of the House of Commons or a joint committee will review the provisions and the operation of the act . 
by December 3 the tally had reached over $ 3 million . 
hon. Paul Martin ( Minister of Finance , Lib . ) : 
perhaps we could just continue with the next motion , which is 2008 , a new year . 
Mrs. Christiane Gagnon 
sadly , recidivism occurs often with those who involve themselves in this type of activity . 
thousands of people lent their names to our petition and postcard campaign in support of Motion No. 123 . 
* * * 
Mr. Myron Thompson : 
the direct marketing industry , information technology companies , telecommunication companies and banks all realize that we need a clear federal legislative privacy framework in Canada . 
the Senate of Canada action plan will not dramatically change our environment overnight , but in time I believe it could become a model for other governing bodies . 
it seems that the same definition of democracy does not apply to Quebecers and the rest of Canadians , because only the sovereignist vote , the vote on the future of the Quebec province , is being limited in such a way , not the federalist vote , and not a vote taken outside Quebec . 
that is good . 
hon. George S . Baker ( Minister of Veterans Affairs and Secretary of State ( Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency ) , Lib . ) : 
the Nisga ' a who live in the Nass Valley are one cultural group among the northwest coast aboriginal peoples . 
Mr. John McKay 
there are those who claim that the end of the Cold War also put an end to the need for a large , standing military capability and created the prospect of a " peace dividend " . 
( division 507 ) 
Mr. Speaker , the Agence France Presse reminded us this morning that Moscow has curtly dismissed western pressure for a political solution to the conflict . 
is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion ? 
we used to truck the grain over there ourselves . 
question PERIOD 
this is what the Quebec bar association proposed in its brief . 
these are important changes under which the government accepts a position much closer to that of other property owners regarding its tax obligations . 
almost one - third of all aboriginal children live in a single - parent family . 
once we were beyond the lobbying for who wants to have health research institutes , the issue for a number of witnesses changed to that of accountability and transparency . 
this is what happened in Japan , when a sect carried out its plans to poison subway travellers and Japan found itself with evidence that had to be decrypted . 
in terms of smart spending in health care , I was extremely interested in the brief of the Canadian Healthcare Association , which said that putting more money into the health care system , even if were available , would not be the answer . 
Mr. Rey D . Pagtakhan 
the NDP along with the Canadian Labour Congress and many other Canadian groups and individuals oppose further liberalization of the WTO . 
if they are going to do some work on drugs , it should be in a prison or close to a prison , in a post - secondary institution where research takes place , anything but building a building . 
and weeks later , on April 17 , 1967 , in the United Kingdom House of Commons , delivered by the Attorney General Sir Elwyn Jones , stating : 
by " better " the former member undoubtedly meant deeper . 
division No. 343 
yet , the government believes in rural life and in the diversification of farms , but all these fine principles the government states in public do not come about in a single day . 
meanwhile , the poor Western Canadian farmer , exposed to the marketplace , has nowhere to go . 
the Senate proceeded to consideration of the second report of the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal Peoples ( power to hire staff ) presented in the Senate on December 15 , 1999 . - ( Honourable Senator Watt ) . 
i am sure that this government will not be able to draw on the same sentiments , Canadians ' strongest . 
there is an old saying that to whom much has been given much is expected . 
second , this committee should travel across Quebec and Canada and , third , all these hearings should be televised to really inform the public about this breach of Canadian democracy and Quebecers ' freedom of choice . 
concurrence in Vote 25 a - Natural Resources 
officials have suggested that the industry itself acknowledges that rationalization has improved its competitiveness . 
i know one thing : the way Royal Assent was given was not the way tradition has always dictated . 
how many visible minority university presidents do you know ? 
paired 
it is very important that we be able to impress on people how compassionate and generous an act this is , and how society as a whole will be the better for it . 
motion agreed to and bill read third time and passed . 
he was an exceptional young man . 
it just takes the will on the part of government . 
by 1984 the price of coal was at $ 52 a tonne , more than six times what it was in 1967 when Devco began operations . 
the next important phase of the renewal of youth justice is directed at implementation of new youth justice legislation . 
the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade travelled to Quebec City , St - Hyacinthe , Montreal , Halifax , Winnipeg , Toronto and Vancouver in March and April of 1999 . 
therefore I urge the Government of Canada to exercise its authority under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act and set strict conditions on the imports of hazardous waste into Canada so as to ensure an environmentally safe disposal . 
then the matter is closed , until the next election . 
another item is for $ 160 million to the Department of Industry for a grant to Genome Canada , which grant was announced in the February 28 , 2000 budget , and will support genomics research , which is the study of how genetic information is structured , stored , expressed and altered . 
division No. 499 
Mr. Peter Adams 
as he has since pointed out , he was clearly talking about government policy and the way that this whole treaty has been handled . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
Mr. Roy Cullen 
that is like Reformers saying they can get rid of the Indian Act . 
is leave granted , honourable senators ? 
committees OF THE HOUSE 
Mr. Werner Schmidt 
the Department of Transport has gone from a zero surplus to a three thousand million dollar surplus in a very short time . 
should Bill C - 20 be passed anyway , it will not have any legitimacy because 60 % and maybe more of federal members from Quebec will have voted against it . 
hon. Senators : 
the Deputy Speaker : 
bank OF CANADA ACT 
some hon. members : 
paired 
foreign ownership is another interesting twist . 
apart from all the skill that Richard possessed , he was also a wonderful guy , and we became cheerful friends at once , in spite of the fact that I was usually calling him when something was threatening to move down the wrong track . 
government RESPONSE TO PETITIONS 
members 
the people of Lac M é gantic are proud folk . 
motion No. 346 
Lynda Haverstock will set new ground in the so - called curriculum vitae of a lieutenant - governor . 
the motion mentions solutions for Canada ' s fishery , but it focuses fundamentally on agriculture . 
when it has completed its work , the Banking Committee may well refer this bill to the Foreign Affairs Committee . 
that woman came before the Special Joint Committee on Child Custody and Access . 
it is going to cost dollars . 
the first priority , of course , was to meet someone named Jean Sutherland , who was widely and respectfully regarded as , I quote , " the lady who runs the Senate . " 
in my great riding of Renfrew - Nipissing - Pembroke , we are saying goodbye to an ardent , accomplished , admirable administrator . 
hon. George S . Baker 
the privacy of health care information is too important to saddle the sector with this confusion . 
it being 2.30 p.m. , the House stands adjourned until Monday next at 11.00 a.m. , pursuant to Standing Order 24 ( 1 ) . 
in conclusion , honourable senators , if I might refer back to Professor Donald Savoie , to whom we have alluded on other occasions , and his recently published book this year , entitled Governing from the Centre . 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
honourable senators , I , too , wish to speak in support of the motion of Senator Bacon . 
the previous trade minister , Sergio Marchi , certainly made every effort to open up the process under the dispute settlement mechanism . 
if the Liberal government wants at all cost to take humanitarian action that will help consumers , it should reduce its excise tax . 
aboriginal AFFAIRS 
Mr. Bob Kilger 
these clauses provide for workers hired after a specified date conditions that are lower than those set out in the collective agreement for other workers , in terms of pay , probationary period , social benefits , employment security of retirement plans . 
i believe that the experts in the field and the political party representatives also share this view . 
madam Speaker , following the introduction of Bill C - 20 by the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs , since you are yourself a Quebecer and , therefore , have an open mind , I hope you will listen carefully to what I have to say and hopefully grant my request . 
national STANDARDS FOR EDUCATION ACT 
if debate is limited , how can Canadians understand what is going on with this issue which involves the Nisga ' a people ? 
Mr. Pat Martin ( Winnipeg Centre , NDP ) : 
i wonder if you could confirm that for me , and whether anyone else in the House has actually voted on every single amendment to date . 
in due course , rules and regulations were drafted with respect to personnel for Canada ' s new navy . 
government ORDERS 
it is designed in a manner so that they will have the opportunity to protect their culture , their language and their property . 
moreover , the criminal jurisdiction is exercised in cooperation with 14 other countries under the international agreement governing the space station . 
would members give unanimous consent that all of the bills dealing with these issues be considered as having been read the first time and printed ? 
" whether that statement presents fairly and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the '' . 
referendums 
i also would remind the House that this project was contracted in good faith based on a business plan and on the advice and support of the whole community . 
section 35 of the Constitution Act , 1982 , is one section beyond sections 1 to 34 , which constitute the Charter of Rights and Freedoms . 
the justice minister was appointed 864 days ago when she stated that the overhauling of the Young Offenders Act was her top priority and that changes were to be made in a timely fashion . 
that would be doing an excellent service to everybody . 
the ILO , the International Labour Organization , did some research . 
therefore these data refute the claim that there is a long term warming trend . 
we support making the federation work better so that there will be no appetite for separation in the country . 
Mr. Mike Scott : 
he went on to write : 
if I had but one reason why Nisga ' a was a failure that would be a mighty one indeed . 
Mr. Ren é Laurin ( Joliette , BQ ) : 
these programs work . 
bill C - 23 - SPEAKER ' S RULING 
the more the public finds out about the content of these agreements the more it is the same as happened with Meech . 
if you do not want - 
members 
that is the truth . 
Mr. Speaker , any allegation of wrongdoing that is brought to the RCMP is operational , and if it is to be investigated the RCMP will decide what measures to take . 
substantive changes in the legislation include a requirement that the Government of Canada pay a supplementary amount to a municipality when a payment is unreasonably delayed . 
motion No. 365 
the kind of approach demonstrated in the Speech from the Throne will actually prevent the cop killers the hon. member talks about . 
they have sought to resolve their disputes through discussion , mutual understanding and give and take . 
honourable senators , I have the honour to introduce Bill S - 9 , to amend the Criminal Code ( abuse of process ) . 
motion No. 149 
some hon. members : 
he went on to become minister of trade and is now representing our interests at the WTO . 
we understand there are tax measures that have to be incorporated , as well as the creative development of the national child benefit with the provinces . 
and when I say the western world , I mean America , Europe and even Scandinavia , most likely . 
displaced people who are charged $ 20,000 - in the case of those from China for example - are subject to a kind of slavery and control including threats against their person . 
paired 
we are putting money into the hands of families with children through tax relief . 
motion No. 107 
there are $ 5 million in this reserve . 
all we have to do is look at some of the quotes from the member himself going back a couple of years . 
the next question is on Motion No. 190 . 
that is what Nobel Laureate John Polyani calls " the commercialization of science . " 
the Canada - China human rights dialogue has allowed Canada access to Chinese agencies whose cooperation is essential to improving human rights practices in China . 
the hon. member touched on a number of the diverse elements behind the legislation , but I personally think the important part of the legislation is its enhanced access to what I would call adult measures . 
they are going to have to live with this for all time because it will be set in constitutional concrete . 
we should be ensuring that the appointment criteria for members of the governing council are specifically defined and that the public voice be absolutely dominant in that configuration . 
under " Purpose " , paragraph 933 , we see : 
purchase of Major Companies by United States Firms - Government Policy 
nays 
the petitioners are calling upon the Government of Canada to take whatever steps are necessary in the House of Commons to abolish the Senate of Canada once and for all . 
the Speaker : 
motion No. 119 negatived 
sadly , it is easy to develop a list of all those who have been victims of genocide . 
they understand that we need evidence based practice . 
men and women rebelled against the uncompromising attitude of the British back then . 
the bill appears to fulfil preservationist environmental objectives instead of the usual objectives of national parks , historic or heritage sites . 
Mr. Speaker , after discussions with the representatives of all of the parties , I believe that you will find unanimous consent for the following motion : 
Mr. Jim Hart 
the next question is on Motion No. 364 . 
if the government went back to the court it would acknowledge that others have rights . 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to tell the hon. member who just spoke that the purpose of the motion put forward by the Bloc this morning is specifically to ask that a committee look into the matter so that all her concerns and fears can be discussed . 
... the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms applies to Nisga ' a Government in respect of all matters within its authority , bearing in mind the free and democratic nature of Nisga ' a Government as set out in this agreement . 
we have discussed a great many matters ranging from land settlements and equality to health care and family matters . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
now will my children go to college ?????? 
the government could also do some constructive things to build our economy . 
it is a process of pre - legislative review . 
the Prime Minister allowed us to contemplate the fact that out of a need to downplay nationalistic tendencies , we now are a country that values quiet confidence and modesty . 
in conclusion , as all my colleagues , I wish that the minister will finally wake up and have the good sense to withdraw this bill . 
yeas 
Mr. Monte Solberg 
that incentive lies at the end of the day , when the hard working and talented Canadian workers are able to see a substantive reward for their efforts . 
that is the crux of the Nisga ' a treaty that is before us today . 
whether this is one of them , I do not know . 
Quebec is doing it and B.C. is doing it . 
the door should not be opened to such practices . 
Mr. Grant Hill 
it said that the approval process and criteria appear to be working . 
may I once again give my assurance to Devco , most especially the employees and their families but also the management and the board of directors , that the Government of Canada takes the issues surrounding the Devco situation very seriously . 
moreover , amendments are made regarding the time when an individual can re - apply for a pardon following a refusal . 
Mr. St é phan Tremblay ( Lac - Saint - Jean , BQ ) : 
i am sure he had ample opportunity to do that on debate , and that is where he should have explained it . 
Surfers are invited to input the gasoline price in their region . 
this is a great victory for a team that lost the gold medal to the Americans at the Nagano Olympic Games . 
senator Austin : 
hon. Lawrence MacAulay 
Mr. Jay Hill : 
as members can see , I am not implicated in a personal attack so much as I am a victim of an attack by the Senate against the House of Commons . 
we know that the Nisga ' a stand to gain a number of things in the treaty . 
an instruction is defined as a motion empowering a committee to do something it could not otherwise do or to direct it to do something it might not otherwise do . 
in fact , we have had the highest growth of any of the G - 7 nations in the last 20 years . 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to begin by thanking you for your ruling . 
we must not imagine that the police do not know all this . 
Mr. Yvon Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst , NDP ) : 
the incidence of poverty , medical problems and disempowered aboriginals is epidemic . 
i am not saying there should not be responsibility and I am not saying directors should be able to hide from their duties and social responsibilities . 
with $ 17 billion , one could give around $ 2,400 to each of the 7 million Quebecers and that would make up for the money that was stolen from them . 
Ms. Marlene Catterall : 
if there is a conflict between Nisga ' a law and the laws of Canada or the laws of British Columbia , there is a dispute settlement mechanism that will be invoked . 
does it mean the same thing for him as for the Liberal Party ? 
our soldiers are still waiting for their inoculations , which they were late receiving , to take effect . 
many seniors are physically active . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
this is already in place in several U.S. states . 
Mr. Speaker , just to allow some time for animus revertendi to take place here , if the hon. member sponsoring the bill were to extend the date for return from the Standing Committee on Canadian Heritage to June 15 , 2000 , that would satisfy the hon. member who just spoke and might allow the House to adopt the unanimous consent . 
teachers ' INSTITUTE ON CANADIAN PARLIAMENTARY DEMOCRACY 
questions ON THE ORDER PAPER 
i am a lawyer and a bit of a wordsmith , and we deal with words all the time . 
what is striking is that we assume that those who cross our borders are invited to take advantage of the abundance that we enjoy here in Canada . 
Mr. Speaker , it is my pleasure to address the opposition day motion . 
thank God for the one person on the other side who has spoken out , and that is Senator Sparrow . 
as well , would the government be in this position if it was not for the GST , which this government said it would scrap in the last election ? 
( b ) extrajudicial measures allow for effective and timely interventions focused on correcting offending behaviour ; 
Stephenville is a good example , perhaps , of the current problem facing our air transportation sector because this airport has been problematic in the past . 
as we can see , the Constitution clearly recognizes that the management and sale of crown land are matters of exclusive provincial jurisdiction . 
Mr. Gilles Duceppe 
why is there one set of rules for the Prime Minister and his cabinet and another set of rules for the rest of Canadians ? 
if you read it , you will see that the court is discussing in that paragraph the issue of negotiations and the phrase " elected representatives " is used and restricted to negotiations which , at the end of the day , the electors can ultimately assess . 
* * * 
Mr. Andr é Harvey 
this organization is a legitimate advocate for business interests . 
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the hon. member for raising the matter . 
Mr. Richard Marceau 
one of its strongest supporters was Leona Freed who has emerged as the leader of a new group called First Nations Accountability Coalition . 
some hon. members : 
such investments will help small businesses grow , encourage trade , support citizens in developing the skills they need , and ensure that Canada has modern infrastructure . 
Mr. Speaker , the second petition I am honoured to present today adds to the 300,000 names already presented in the House on the issue of child pornography . 
it did not bespeak the 459 programs that have been brought to the floor of the House , showing a miserable lack of accounting . 
nil 
honourable senators , I give notice that on Tuesday next , November 30 , 1999 , I will move : 
Mr. Maurice Godin ( Ch â teauguay , BQ ) : 
this was demonstrated just recently when two premiers from the provinces of Saskatchewan and Manitoba met with the government in all sincerity doing their utmost to try to help the situations in their provinces and were literally snubbed by the Liberal government and our Prime Minister . 
Mr. Speaker , the member for Athabasca was in the House at the time I submitted the revised version . 
Mr. Jason Kenney 
mandate 
Mr. Speaker , we have to be clear . 
i was a bit unhappy with the fact that our first flag had been confiscated by a political party rather than having been placed in a national institution . 
honourable senators , I have the honour to present the third report of the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance , which addresses Supplementary Estimates ( B ) for 1999 - 2000 . 
members 
Ms. Val Meredith : 
the document referred to is a working document and in no way a report to the solicitor general . 
there are very significant contributions that have been made by Canadians , contributions that we should be extremely proud of . 
i have an accounting degree and I can understand why accountants are having such severe problem with it . 
that is a great step forward . 
we would like the reimbursement of campaign finances removed . 
i was particularly struck by the comments which had to do with the attempts to change direction or perhaps interpret things differently . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 27 , be amended by replacing lines 7 and 8 on page 10 with the following : 
members 
Mr. Speaker , if the House gives its consent , I move that the seventh report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs , presented to the House earlier this day , be concurred in . 
Mr. Richard M. Harris 
the owners of the garage open their doors to us , they allow us to meet the employees , either during the morning or the afternoon break , or at lunch time , and we then have the opportunity to talk with those men and women who tell us about the problems they are facing . 
Mr. Speaker , let me assure the hon. member that the department treats clients with fairness , understanding and compassion . 
they just want the agreement to come to Ottawa and they will sign it , and away we all go . 
between the ages of one and five , a child eats three to four times more food per kilogram of body weight . 
it will be a process that scientists , and particularly the interim governing council , will be extraordinarily comfortable with . 
paired 
Mr. Jim Gouk 
clearly the government has stated its openness to legislative change from the day the use of section 47 was announced , which was August 13 . 
members 
the Marshall case , as members will recall , was the decision of the supremem court , a majority decision whereby aboriginals were given the right to fish commercially , rights that transcend the laws that may apply to non - aboriginals , the laws of the land . 
honourable senators , would the Deputy Leader of the Government walk us through the order of business for the rest of the day ? 
i would like to conclude - I could go on at great length about genetically engineered organisms , but I will address the matter at another time - by referring members to page 19 of the throne speech , which reads as follows : 
in the United Kingdom , a minister of the Crown can deny a person citizenship based on arbitrary conditions . 
the only reason it is so high is because people do not know what the price would be if it were not for the federal , provincial and other hidden taxes . 
it distinguishes between people who are employed and those who are self - employed , but we feel it is necessary to close that potential loophole so that the election race and the financing of it is on a level playing field and is fairer . 
as a government we want to make sure that all corporations in Canada , of which we are proud , will be given all the necessary tools to be involved in and to join with all nations in the global marketplace . 
nays 
Monday , October 25 , 1999 
it being 6.15 p.m. , pursuant to order made earlier today , it is my duty to interrupt the proceedings and put forthwith every question necessary to dispose of the second reading stage of the bill now before the House . 
we certainly did not hear any reference to it during the throne speech and we did not hear much reference to it in the subsequent follow up debate . 
the government can do that by providing our law enforcement community with what it needs to get the job done . 
members 
they have also worked co - operatively with their neighbours . 
hon. Herb Gray 
i insisted that we make this plan public , that we make it available to the Canadian people so they could see that there were problems but that we were prepared to deal with them . 
we were so concerned about the overstating of this case that we started to do a little more research into what motivated this group of migrants and what motivates migrants all over the world . 
these are increased expenditures created by cutting expenditures . 
that is the ambiguity I need to address . 
the feeling is that the federal government wants to make sure Quebec cannot democratically overcome all these obstacles . 
hon. Jim Peterson ( Secretary of State ( International Financial Institutions ) , Lib . ) : 
lobster fishers risk huge amounts of money to participate in this lucrative fishery . 
Mr. Bill Gilmour ( Nanaimo - Alberni , Ref. ) : 
the fact is the minister knows this . 
Mr. Peter MacKay ( Pictou - Antigonish - Guysborough , PC ) : 
the hon. member now has a minute and a half left . 
we certainly concede that . 
if previous Conservative governments and the current Liberal government have refused to negotiate and to legislate , then it is quite obvious that the supreme court will dictate to us what it interprets as the rules and what it interprets as the law . 
contradiction and lack of leadership are consistent traits of the government . 
the fact is that Parliament prorogued some months ago and is now in session again . 
in the last several years a small elite group has formulated our foreign policy . 
should the Canadian people be told that because one party in this place out of five does not agree with the democratically arrived at solution that they can no longer talk to committees and that the finance committee cannot travel ? 
my question is for the Minister of Finance . 
child POVERTY 
he said that Canada was unique as a country because its Constitution contains no provision prohibiting separation . 
you can negotiate whatever you want . 
the petitioners advocate that legislation be enacted requiring refugee claimants to demonstrate that they are fleeing genuine political persecution or face immediate deportation without delay . 
i believe six future parks are being committed for ecological integrity , national identity and for preservation and conservation . 
do they want to go back to that ? 
in my opinion the nays have it . 
they are also able to develop profiles based on indicators of certain types of applicants who might be less enthusiastic than others in providing a complete picture of their presence in Canada . 
Mr. Daniel Turp ( Beauharnois - Salaberry , BQ ) : 
the report on China , which runs some 70 pages , states that China ' s poor human rights record deteriorated markedly throughout the year . 
miss Deborah Grey : 
international DAY OF DISABLED PERSONS 
the key to opening this cage is the bill before us today , which will permit the Nisga ' a to fly , establish infrastructures , elect their people and see that the values reflected are their very own . 
in fact there have been numerous challenges before the courts and human rights tribunals concerning the equal treatment of same sex couples . 
we do not mind supporting the bill . 
Spain - 1 
how could the Prime Minister think we would take his offer seriously , considering that he is the one who imposed the 1982 Constitution , the one who killed Meech , the one who , through his social union , infringes on Quebec ' s constitutional jurisdictions , and the one who now wants to change the 50 % plus one rule ? 
Mr. St é phan Tremblay ( Lac - Saint - Jean , BQ ) : 
fisheries 
the government has to take better action than it has taken in the past , which has been nothing . 
all honourable senators will remember that when we debated EI premiums here , we were repeatedly told that it was not a tax : " No , it is not a tax , not a tax , not a tax . 
the 1980 and 1995 referendums were held by governments that had received a mandate to do so , and every time they acted they had the support of the people . 
resuming debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , for an Address to Her Excellency the Governor General in reply to her Speech from the Throne at the Opening of the Second Session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . - ( 
any attempt to reduce the contribution of non - government supporters to the committee system without just cause will be strongly resisted , not out of petty egoism , but because the great value of this place rests on a foundation of working together and not against each other . 
if the New Democrats say that I am too far right and the Reform Party says I am a socialist , that probably makes me just right . 
hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
Mr. Steve Mahoney : 
i have never known Derek Lewis to be in a melancholy mood . 
i do not see the Liberal government doing anything about it . 
some Hon. Senators : 
the next question is on Motion No. 120 . 
on June 8 , 1999 , for example , the House passed by a vote of 216 for and 55 against a resolution moved by the hon. member for Calgary Centre which read as follows : 
they were headed of course by our own Clerk , Mr. Robert Marleau , and our Deputy Clerk , Mr. Camille Montpetit . 
senator Hays : 
let me simply say , in response to that groundless accusation , that it is because we respect Quebecers and the citizens of all the provinces that we want to ensure that any referendum question put to them is clear and void of any ambiguity . 
will the minister acknowledge once and for all that the priority is to re - establish transfer payments at the 1994 level , as all of the provinces have in fact asked him to do ? 
a total of $ 65 million will be injected into health research through the creation of institutes . 
yea . 
motions Nos. 4 to 6 , 8 to 11 , 14 , 15 , 21 to 25 , 30 to 36 , 38 , 39 , 51 , 52 , 54 , 57 , and 58 . 
the Nisga ' a government will only be able to enact laws that are consistent with the charter of rights and freedoms . 
and in which we wonder what place there will be for diversity . 
Wednesday , November 17 , 1999 
it establishes three fundamental rights for employees : the right to know about hazards in the workplace ; the right to participate in correcting the hazards ; and the right to refuse dangerous work . 
i am afraid I must interrupt the hon. member . 
the precise intent of the bill goes to the question of the wilful and deliberate attempt to deceive the courts . 
i did not sell a money losing business to the recipient in my riding . 
the only question that remains is that we must complete the ratification of the straddling stocks agreement to fill in the gap of fish management on the high seas . 
in the legislation , youth 14 years and older who are convicted of murder , attempted murder , manslaughter or aggravated sexual assault will receive an adult sentence unless a judge can be persuaded otherwise . 
does the minister not think that some measure ought to be taken so that our Transport Committee can meet this week ? 
i am sure they would probably feel as I did . 
with respect to the road in question , I am very familiar with it . 
i do not want to get into a numbers game . 
when I was a youngster we used to say that if we shot at nothing we would be sure to hit it . 
taxpayers should not be expected to fund activities designed to persuade them to vote . 
the member spoke about the process , which he did not really like . 
what this motion wants confirmed is transparency and accountability - not cover - up and denial . 
i hold these two great poets , literary giants whom I have not abandoned over the years , in the greatest esteem . 
the bridge has been rebuilt and remains in the same location . 
i had not finished , Mr. Speaker . 
on behalf of the NDP caucus , congratulations to the voters of Saskatoon - Rosetown - Biggar on electing their new member of parliament , Dennis Gruending . 
to hand out nice cheques with a maple leaf on them , to mark the millennium . 
it is a chip away at the bottom of the dike and everything else will break loose from there . 
hon. Herb Gray 
the AIDA and NISA programs simply do not meet their needs . 
this is the fourth time in five months that the official opposition has tried to raise both the consciousness of the House and , more importantly , the consciousness of the government with respect to the seriousness of the income crisis facing our farmers , a crisis further compounded by flooding earlier this spring in certain parts of Saskatchewan and Manitoba . 
this seems to me a strange situation . 
No. 
let us not continue to argue about it . 
i must remind the hon. member that we do not comment on the presence or absence of members in the House . 
i think he wants it . 
petitions 
we wish to support greater recognition of Canada ' s wartime contributions on this passing of the most violent century of all time . 
in order to explain why Bill C - 223 is not the right initiative let me first say a few words about the Canadian witness protection program . 
i agree with that and I think all members of the House would agree with that . 
i wonder if , within your discretion , you would consider putting to the House for unanimous consent the suggestion that we suspend voting for a very brief time to allow for some of the newspapers and the debris to be removed from around the floor and the tables . 
division No. 705 
the competition commissioner has recommended that the government extend the foreign ownership to 49 % . 
we should be celebrating . 
another section of the Nisga ' a final agreement that has relevance in relation to the provision I just mentioned is the ownership of water . 
Ms. Jocelyne Girard - Bujold ( Jonqui è re , BQ ) : 
second Reading - Debate Continued 
paired 
motion No. 15 will add new paragraph ( c .1 ) to clause 7 ( 3 ) to allow disclosure of personal information without consent to government institutions which require the information in order to undertake investigations or enforce or administer laws at the discretion of organizations . 
Mr. Howard Hilstrom ( Selkirk - Interlake , Ref. ) : 
motion No. 173 negatived 
earlier , Senator Frank Mahovlich said that , in 1972 , an important event took place in Canada and in Moscow ; I was there too . 
these allegations are indeed serious if the allegations are true and if I decide that we will go ahead with a prima facie case . 
others maintain , based on the English version , that the pardon simply makes the information concerning the conviction confidential . 
make no mistake , our forces do an excellent job with the people and the equipment they currently have . 
the government after all has 150 members yet it cannot muster four . 
the cornerstone has three prongs we are advocating which are having a loan guarantee program , bilateral trade with the Americans and tax reduction . 
auto PACT 
it takes no little arrogance , indeed a lot of it , to say that the provinces will nevertheless be entitled , in their fields of jurisdiction , to propose policy that is complementary to that decided here in Ottawa . 
in the meantime , I am very sorry for those people who have lost their jobs at InterCanadian , but there is more than enough capacity in the province of Quebec and the Atlantic provinces to take care of all of the passengers and to make sure disruptions are kept to a minimum . 
she said she had a strategy to get out of the mess , but she blew millions of dollars more on the same grants . 
i declare Motion No. 385 lost . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
i have the right to come here and express concern about the commitment the government is making , and so do my colleagues . 
Mr. Speaker , I might note that the minister did not mention whether the government was going to make its medical research intentions official . 
therefore , the Senate proceeded to Orders of the Day without reverting to Routine of Business . 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
paired 
* * * 
we have some votes to take . 
Mr. Clark put it very well , borrowing a quote from Robert Stanfield " Nothing is easier to do than to turn the majority in a country against a minority '' . 
the hon. member for Kamouraska - Rivi è re - du - Loup - T é miscouata - Les Basques . 
this is why we used a reasonable approach under the very capable leadership of the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs . 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
they relate chiefly to the three distinctive areas of administrative adjustments , publication bans and spending by third parties during election campaigns . 
however , given today ' s default rate of one in three , it appears that some students are falling through the cracks . 
* * * 
in political life , Senator Ghitter served two terms in the Legislative Assembly of Alberta in the 1970 s . 
Mr. Jim Abbott ( Kootenay - Columbia , Ref. ) : 
canada WATER EXPORT PROHIBITION ACT 
the imprisonment of 150 Burmese democratically elected representatives since 1998 speaks very clearly of the state of human rights in that country . 
the federal government is also present . 
information will be maintained in an efficient form for the purposes of identifying intended or potential organ donors . 
fish harvested under the Nisga ' a treaty entitlements may only be sold when commercial fishermen can also sell those Nass salmon species . 
at the same time , however , we are confident that , if faced with a clear choice , Quebecers , along with other Canadians , will always choose Canada . 
honourable senators , I should like to express my gratitude to the deputy chairman of the committee , Senator Forrestall , and to all senators who participated in the work of the committee . 
Mr. John Nunziata ( York South - Weston , Ind . ) : 
once debate has begun , all the rules relating to debate are applicable , including the possibility of raising a point of order . 
health 
the government transferred the money , and believe me , it was strictly for partisan purposes . 
BUFFETT TAYLOR CHAIR 
she continually denied that such a list existed . 
* * * 
this legislation was previously introduced as Bill C - 59 which died on the Order Paper when Parliament was dissolved in April 1997 . 
that when the Senate adjourns today , it do stand adjourned until Tuesday , November 23 , 1999 , at 2 p.m. 
the member for Battlefords - Lloydminister said in a letter to the minister : " I would like to ask that you seriously consider the request for funding and give the Voice of the Blue Rose Advocacy a favourable response '' . 
Mr. Speaker , I am happy to be recognized along with my colleagues . 
united Nations 
hon. Arthur C . Eggleton ( Minister of National Defence , Lib . ) : 
division No. 570 
it works behind the scenes , hoping that the legislative committee will make as few waves as possible . 
the figure of $ 85 million is not the only figure Minister Rock estimated . 
i am going to ask the attorney general what assurances she can give Canadians that these files and their integrity will be protected so we can get to the truth lying behind this scandal . 
Mr. Louis Plamondon : 
the new cancer treatment he has come up with has made headlines worldwide . 
under these agreements , commercial carriers from one signatory state can use the airspace of another signatory state , which increases the number of destination points the carriers of both countries can offer . 
Mr. Andr é Bachand : 
members 
points OF ORDER 
this is what is happening while we are living together . 
hon. Alfonso Gagliano 
at the end of the day , one was left to wonder whether one could even call upon the victims who were often forced to testify two , three and four times as a result of those old provisions . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
Mr. Speaker , the auditor general congratulated the government for one contract out of four . 
CANADIAN TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION AND SAFETY BOARD ACT 
is this because I am right , or is it because they want to miss the boat again ? 
these actions were necessitated by economies of scale and with the expectation that corridors would be revisited to address the anomalies in the system . 
there are some in this House who do not believe that government can be a positive force in society . 
we can see why the municipalities were very concerned that the federal government had the control , power and authority to arbitrarily and unilaterally announce that it would not pay property taxes any more . 
i think I understand what the member for Skeena had in mind when he put this motion forward . 
however , the report was never adopted by the Senate . 
* * * 
again the AIDA program is targeted at those in need . 
that is an ambitious objective but one which I believe Canadians will support . 
senator Boudreau : 
miss Lundberg said : 
this government vaunts and boasts often of its competence , managerial ability , fiscal prudence and sound government . 
is it your pleasure , honourable senators , to adopt the motion ? 
he mentioned $ 50 million to fight organized crime in airports . 
that is another problem entirely . 
coming out of that meeting there was agreement to address fish access immediately and there was agreement on certain elements of a process . 
certainly , the ultimate weapon of trade is through sanctions . 
the CONSTITUTION 
it is all electronic fuel injection . 
in the latter days of the hearings , additional witnesses kept coming up and asking to be heard . 
government ORDERS 
he turned to the federal political scene in 1962 as the Liberal Member of Parliament for Antigonish - Guysborough , which position he held for three terms . 
fostering economic development is one of the principal achievements of this treaty . 
they were chosen because of their expertise in homeless related issues such as housing , health and community capacity building . 
it is on behalf of the poor that we must work the hardest , because in a country as wealthy as ours nobody should be forced to live out of doors , to beg for food , or to die on the streets . 
instead of hearing these lines , stalling and jokes about pepper spraying , we would like some answers . 
i am convinced that we will be discussing this when the ministers of finance meet in ten days ' time . 
second , the government needs to ensure in better terms that we are not amending the constitution and that all of it applies to us . 
i wonder if Senator Kroft was made aware of this . 
some hon. members : 
when she does , it would be the proper time to raise the matter . 
child PORNOGRAPHY 
this seems ridiculous when one considers all of the work that would be involved . 
equality does allow for special help . 
the motion this morning by the federal government to invoke closure on the Nisga ' a treaty debate is a reprehensible abuse of the democratic process , said Liberal Leader Gordon Campbell . 
in January , M é decins du Monde set up a mobile team of doctors that will go to the young people where they are , that is , in the street . 
it is a nice cool - off period . 
only in the extreme case should the committee consider asking for an extension . 
Ms. Bev Desjarlais ( Churchill , NDP ) : 
i believe they have been treated shabbily . 
elections Canada wants and needs to hire its own personnel to properly oversee an election . 
second , the blood samples act is about balancing rights . 
it has less than 0.001 per cent , or 1 part in 100,000 , of THC . 
Mr. Ken Epp ( Elk Island , Ref. ) : 
the report was adopted by the Senate on Tuesday , December 14 , 1999 . 
is there agreement to proceed in such a fashion ? 
when we make a regulation we have to make sure all of our communities are serviced . 
before we go to the next speaker I want to clarify a couple of items . 
( division 403 ) 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
why will the government not ask the supreme court to stay the Marshall decision , and clarify it ? 
hon. Lyle Vanclief ( Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food , Lib . ) : 
another item that was not mentioned , and if it were it was very limited , was the agricultural industry . 
* * * 
i trust , honourable senators , that this recommendation for states wishing to take part in international organizations to be required in future to respect human rights at all times will be acted on . 
on December 17 , 1999 , Minister Claudette Bradshaw , on behalf of the Government of Canada announced a $ 753 - million investment in our communities to work together to address and prevent homelessness . 
the SENATE 
this is what must happen , because it is the right thing to do , because Canadians have said so , and because the House has said so on more than one occasion in the past . 
what we are concerned about is actual approval authority . 
no , they were not . 
some hon. members : 
i believe that , if I called for unanimous consent , I would get it , acknowledging Lucien Bouchard as certainly one of the most gifted men of his generation . 
the federal minister of agriculture responded by recommending to the finance minister that he approve tax deferral for farmers affected by the drought . 
Mr. Roy Cullen ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Finance , Lib . ) : 
i wonder if the hon. member would like to comment on that gross misrepresentation by the Reform Party and also on the Reform Party ' s suggestion that in some way this entrenches inequality for aboriginal women . 
Wednesday , November 24 , 1999 
transitional JOBS FUND 
these three people have made a lasting contribution to the leadership they have shown on the interim governing council . 
i was under the impression it was Senator Finestone ' s speech . 
we will set that aside . 
that brings into play the role of the Liberal government in the trade negotiations coming up in the next round . 
i have not seen the newspapers but I know that is a prop . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
Mr. Speaker , today Canadians of Estonian heritage are commemorating the 82 nd anniversary of the declaration of independence of Estonia . 
it does not bring to the problem of the brain drain what free enterprise , market based principles and fiscal responsibility in government can offer those people . 
every bit helps . 
the short answer which has meaning for us today is that the conservers of the old and the advocates of the new learned to bear with one another and to recognize each in the other the necessary complement of their one - sidedness . 
at the provincial level , she identified and supported program changes to enhance the opportunities of women during her term as member and chairperson of the Appeals Board for Social Services of Prince Edward Island . 
the debate is now on the amendment . 
honourable senators , I am pleased to rise in support of the motion from our colleague who , as we all know , was a very respected member of the Canadian team , Ambassador for Disarmament for the Canadian government , and led them to the UN 1985 conference on the non - proliferation treaty with respect to nuclear weapons . 
we are talking about real , substantive tax relief . 
is there unanimous consent ? 
the RCMP were tipped , and all three were arrested . 
let me turn my attention to the Canadian Institutes of Health Research which are important vehicles . 
we have to follow the example of Ireland in the European Union . 
finally , there is one general shortcoming that the bill does not address on the issue of the identification of young offenders . 
Mr. Speaker , let me make real plain what the Reform Party supports . 
Tourisme Qu é bec talks of " orienting and co - ordinating public and private action in tourism '' . 
i believe it is an honour to Canada that the United Kingdom ' s Prime Minister Tony Blair recommended Mr. Black for appointment to the House of Lords as a non - hereditary peer and Lord . 
we have been told several times that the Barreau du Qu é bec , of which I am a member , the Chambre des notaires , and other professional bodies and societies made their positions known on Bill C - 6 . 
i think I have a good idea to deal with all we have to deal with today , if you will leave it with me . 
Mr. Speaker , I have seen better skating on the canal . 
that is not a point of order . 
the staff members that were given to me on loan have all the reports that were written on homelessness . 
miss Deborah Grey 
if he had gone much further , he would have lavished even more on the Department of Human Resources . 
agriculture was viewed as a special category . 
Mr. Speaker , I am happy to report to the House that our officials are working with the Acadia band . 
No. 
i have written the solicitor general and the head of the RCMP about the shortage of officers on the Sunshine Coast where they are supposed to have 52 officers for a population of 46,000 . 
the second amendment takes the list of sexual offences out of the regulations and incorporates it in the legislation as a schedule to the act . 
Mr. Bob Kilger : 
we have a number of questions about this fund . 
each time , however , they are damaged and their image is severely tarnished , which could eventually throw them out of balance . 
we created the national child benefit through which low income families receive in total $ 1.7 billion every year while provinces and territories are reinvesting in complementary services . 
it all could have been avoided had the government only shown some leadership . 
if there were three of them sitting here , I would have something to holler about . 
in addition , it needs to be coordinated with debt relief to the most indebted countries , increased measures for employment and health for the elderly . 
the smaller party candidate who only has $ 1,000 would be lucky if he or she could put up one or two billboards and would truly be at a disadvantage . 
i declare Motion No. 43 lost . 
the third area I want to talk about and the most important part of what I am charged to do relates to specific actions to be taken to bring about tangible developments and improvements for rural Canadians . 
on motion of senator DeWare , debate adjourned . 
Mr. Bryon Wilfert : 
i remember being a member of the committee that travelled from coast to coast on the issue of custody and access situations that had to be dealt with in divorce . 
there is a 98 % drop in realized net income and not a whisper of concern in yesterday ' s throne speech . 
that is a good amount to put in tax relief at the federal level at this time . 
we have begun this in the last six years . 
when voting took place on Motion No. 356 , I believe it was , and the Table is trying to confirm it for me , the Speaker did not acknowledge voters subsequent to my colleague who did not initially stand . 
it was not a pleasant overview . 
Ms. Aileen Carroll : 
it also urged countries to consider how the principles of cultural diversity could further be integrated into key aspects of international relations . 
is leave granted , honourable senators ? 
it also introduced a new maximum penalty of life imprisonment for leaving the scene of an accident knowing that there was a death or an injury and not caring whether death ensued and death did ensue . 
if these cultural protectionists are truly interested in the well - being of Canadian performers , they would be out there promoting them , not trying to isolate them . 
hon. John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) : 
Ms. Judy Wasylycia - Leis ( Winnipeg North Centre , NDP ) : 
in some of our wealthiest cities the use of food banks is growing at an alarming rate . 
every year , complaints are filed with human rights commissions on the federal or provincial level concerning discrimination toward homosexuals relating to hiring , firing and treatment in the workplace . 
Mr. Speaker , let me confirm for the House that CANDO has already referred the matter to the police . 
i am in the process of thinking over the possibility of an investigation , but the decision has not been made , and will not be made until such time as I have spoken to both parties . 
oral QUESTION PERIOD 
Mr. Mark Muise ( West Nova , PC ) : 
you have basically killed health services with your policies . 
this was the first serious review of this aspect . 
4 . Issue : 
hon. John Manley ( Minister of Industry , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , what I said was that people were tired of hearing about the referendum and winning conditions . 
we have to pay for these things . 
his potential allies in Quebec say that this approach is completely misguided . 
* * * 
the ambitious revitalization project involves the burial of overhead hydro wires , the widening of main street sidewalks and the refurbishment of storefronts . 
innovation in political structures . 
according to our constitution , as it is now , municipalities do not exist , they have no jurisdiction in law and they do not have any official relationship with the federal government or the crown . 
a dashing , charismatic politician , he was elected leader of the Liberal Party of Canada in 1968 and in April sworn in as Canada ' s 15 th prime minister . 
part of the problem with that is that when we teach emerging nations on how they should conduct their elections , we advise them not to use patronage as part of their system because we recognize problems with it . 
members 
a rush to alter equipment and automation is dangerous and haste could cost lives . 
the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs talks about clarity . 
in the Standing Committee on Agriculture members of the Reform caucus presented motion after motion which initiated action and got inquiries going into the income crisis . 
however , in other areas such as industry , and areas of grants where there is no transparency and accountability , that is not working . 
if we could have prevented his death or given him even a few more years of life we would have all benefited . 
i say to the member from the Bloc Quebecois that only two provinces are still constructing social housing in Canada . 
hon. Don Boudria 
we were heartened by the commitment of the Minister of Finance to meet with the Secretary of State for the Status of Women and the President of the Treasury Board to actually look at how that could be articulated . 
honourable senators , I would ask for leave to have this item stand in the name of the Honourable Senator Grafstein who intends to speak to it . 
members 
i would like my colleague to comment further on that aspect of his delivery . 
a quick fly - over in a plane is not good enough . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
i have found that the most important issue pressing on the minds of the people is that our three levels of governments , through the force of law , have taken away so much wealth on a yearly and daily basis that it is placing our families and individuals in economic jeopardy . 
Mr. Speaker , I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to table a document that will enlighten the House . 
would individuals be allowed to self - declare their relationships , or would the government require proof of some kind ? 
hon. Senators : 
if there is such opposition to it , why can government members not exercise a shade of humility and say that perhaps they are not perfect ? 
Canadians will be watching Chris Hadfield make history by becoming the first Canadian to perform a space walk to install Canada ' s new robotic arm on the international space station . 
while I did not have the pleasure of meeting Mr. Wahn , it is my understanding that he was a dedicated parliamentarian for 10 years , from 1962 to 1972 . 
Mr. Mac Harb ( Ottawa Centre , Lib . ) : 
motion No. 191 negatived 
we would have been ignoring the reality of the changing scene in the area , which was taking place while we met and continues to take place this very day . 
Charles H . Duell , head of the U.S. Office of Patents , observed in 1899 that " everything that can be invented has already been invented . " 
Mr. Speaker , it is my honour , pursuant to Standing Order 36 , to present a petition that essentially calls for the abolishment of the Senate . 
as the sponsor of Bill S - 10 , I should like to say a few words about the outstanding work done by the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs in reviewing this bill and the important improvements that resulted from that review . 
my understanding of the Nisga ' a treaty is that any amendment to that treaty must involve the three parties , the Nisga ' a , the legislature of British Columbia and the federal cabinet . 
yes , Mr. Speaker . 
i think we are able to hold ourselves up as a standard to the world . 
Mr. Louis Plamondon 
recommendation 29 specifically calls upon the government to pursue the policy alternative contained in the cultural SAGIT report for a new international instrument on cultural diversity . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the issue of bilingualism can be a highly controversial one , like the David Levine matter and the Montfort Hospital . 
motion No. 303 negatived 
hon. J . Michael Forrestall : 
to be effective , everyone in the community and every level of government must work together because we all have an important role to play . 
the deputy minister was telling a junior bureaucrat that " we do not design the programs , Parliament designs program , " and " whether a bureaucrat in a given situation thinks the priorities should be this or should be that is not a decision for a bureaucrat . " 
in other words , one cannot vote by proxy and one cannot speak by proxy . 
senator Boudreau : 
it is part of the democratic process . 
( division 561 ) 
will the Prime Minister be taking a holiday as well from the financial loans and grants to his own riding over the Christmas holidays , or will the financial tap remain on there , while it is turned off on the Prairies ? 
motion No. 413 
women in the minister ' s own caucus have publicly stated that it is time to finally respect and recognize the court decision and pay up . 
motion No. 13 
as things stand , the Canadian government has fulfilled most of the commitments it made during the Uruguay Round of negotiations . 
some hon. members : 
one could oppose him or support him , but never ignore him . 
* * * 
until such a law is enacted , the federal government will continue to protect the interests of those who contribute to the election fund to the detriment of the general public , as seems to be the case in the area of air transport . 
unlike the United States and other countries , we do not detain illegal migrants unless we have reason to believe that they constitute a criminal or security threat . 
we saw the results . 
canada , therefore , clearly needs a national law to protect personal data in such circumstances - a law that is harmonized with the provinces and territories playing their part in their area of jurisdiction . 
gasoline PRICES 
Mr. Preston Manning 
that document explains extensively how we could establish partnership with our friends from Canada . 
concurrence in Vote 1 a - Governor General 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
these figures show the deep confusion generated by the separatist proposal . 
at that time , as minister of state , our colleague Senator Joyal , said , as reported in the House of Commons Debates of November 30 , 1981 , at page 13499 : 
* * * 
in my opinion the nays have it . 
hon. Paul Martin ( Minister of Finance , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Speaker , I request a quorum count . 
neither the grassroots Nisga ' a people nor the rest of the non - aboriginal people in British Columbia had any real idea of what the deal contained . 
the Nisga ' a treaty and Bill C - 10 are perfect examples of that . 
division No. 250 
open sores and blisters that heal slowly if at all characterize the most severe form of EB . 
i have heard a lot of goodwill spoken on this issue by people on all sides , by the aboriginal people and by non - aboriginal people who want to resolve this issue in a favourable way . 
he has always demonstrated his great regard for the role of Parliament in Canadian society , for its processes , and for the important role reasoned opposition could play , as well as his appreciation of good debate . 
what I find most surprising is that this is a bill to change age on the grounds that an adolescent 14 years of age cannot validly give consent , and the age must be increased to 16 , and that it is a member of the Reform Party speaking , when in the debate on young offenders these same people said the age should be lowered to 14 or 15 because they are responsible . 
i will explain this process so that people can hear about the kinds of things that can happen when we go traditional . 
this bill is really an omnibus bill . 
the Nisga ' a treaty shows the advantages of negotiating those issues instead of going to court . 
perhaps the member could speak on behalf of his party and indicate whether they would support such a campaign . 
they have done it in a very professional way . 
at no time , I believe , has he spoken to other people . 
i am tabling it . 
they have received nothing and they are on the verge of going bankrupt . 
Mr. Paul DeVillers ( Simcoe North , Lib . ) : 
members 
the Senate met at 1:30 p.m. , the Speaker in the Chair . 
we also have to keep the integrity of our retirement pension system . 
an agreement has been made with the government and the process will continue until it is completely resolved . 
introduction and first reading 
incontinence Awareness Month 
members 
so , let us compare oranges with oranges and apples with apples . 
commodity prices have fallen to historic lows for three reasons . 
is this the curious moral of the last millennium - seeing not doing - and the hope for the next millennium - words to match deeds ? 
the government has done this by adopting a comprehensive , balanced economic strategy that has transformed Canada to becoming one of the strongest economies of the G - 7 . 
honourable senators , I move that the debate be adjourned . 
the whole of the Family Law Reform Act was introduced after my wife and I had been married for 20 years . 
no worker should have to lose his or her job because the Liberal government has run our airline industry to the ground . 
they are important contributors to the Canadian economy . 
Wednesday , November 24 , 1999 
all those opposed will please say nay . 
we must have the courage to recognize the reality of today . 
we have should looked at some other form of choosing members of parliament that actually reflected what Canadians say when they cast a ballot . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
hon. Lorna Milne , Chair of the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs , presented the following report : 
because support for sovereignty went from 8 % in the 1960 s to 49.6 % in 1995 . 
we are talking about the bill in principle . 
there has never been a government in the country during my lifetime that has done more to promote disunity in the country than this government and this Prime Minister . 
Mr. Grant Hill ( Macleod , Ref. ) : 
it is an extremely complex process . 
personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Bill 
we are at a point where we can now start to rectify some of the wrongs that have been done over the historic period of time when we have been living side by side with the aboriginal people in Canada . 
Mr. Speaker , the hon. member has it all wrong . 
Mr. Janko Peric 
he bore all his troubles casually , all his responsibilities seriously and with exemplary integrity . 
those are basic fundamental flaws with this piece of legislation that the government is continuing to ignore . 
negotiations are not the issue here . 
it is 252 pages long with an appendix of 462 pages . 
the Speaker : 
we have been told , " Well , they cannot simply be disclosed . 
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , Thursday , March 2 , I will move : 
committee Authorized to Meet During Sittings of the Senate 
there are the MPs and ministers who failed to seize the opportunity to establish ties between the communities . 
members 
( 1500 ) 
( the House divided on Motion No. 196 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Speaker , it is with pleasure that I now conclude my remarks after question period . 
put anybody ' s name on the ballot , anybody who wants to apply under the rules and pay the candidate deposit . 
we want some answers . 
these developments toughened Canada ' s enforcement efforts and in particular , undercover investigations directed at high level drug traffickers . 
agreed . 
No. 
Mr. Speaker , at the outset I would like to make a particular point . 
the Nisga ' a treaty has been many long years in the making . 
if we do not take measures to conserve our natural resources , the victory which the natives achieved by the supreme court ruling will no longer be a victory because in 10 years there will be no resources . 
also it does not work if the disaster goes on for more than 2 years as the reference margins then get so low that you don ' t generate a claim . 
this bill specifies the unavoidable responsibilities of the Government of Canada and the House of Commons . 
the House leader stood and talked about the democratic process and how he supports it . 
in other words , after he has given everything away , he now wants to go and resolve it . 
for example , at one point it was common practice that when a delivery contract was up for renewal , a Canada Post employee would phone up the contractor and tell them that they had received a bid from another source that was thousands of dollars less than what the contractor was currently being paid . 
core infrastructure such as transportation , telecommunications , basic services such as water , electricity and waste disposal ; 
Doug was born in Winnipeg in 1947 
Mr. Speaker , rather disturbing revelations were made yesterday to the effect that a parole board commissioner , Ms. Th é riault , had regular telephone contacts with the riding and Ottawa offices of the Minister for International Trade . 
pensions 
Mr. Joe McGuire ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food , Lib . ) : 
we are encouraged by the co - operation between federal , provincial and municipal police forces to fight the illicit cultivation of marijuana . 
so much of this is an act of supererogation , of stating what parliament already does . 
some hon. members : 
Mr. Speaker , my request is twofold . 
referendums 
remember the NATO plans for low altitude flights . 
that is clear enough and very informative . 
therefore , we do not need to do what we have already done . 
Mr. Pat Martin ( Winnipeg Centre , NDP ) : 
motion agreed to . 
now we see that the Europeans will not budge from their position of keeping subsidies in place . 
this arrogant government has turned its back on farmers , promising help but not delivering . 
there is another provision in this bill which I am not sure is a principle . 
i believe it is time to adopt the bill without any further amendment . 
all of us can make a contribution to making our society a healthier one by supporting activities in our community that are focused on doing away with violence . 
what we should be talking about is the relationships that occur between human beings . 
we do not know who advised him or anything . 
the one amendment attempted to attach the Nisga ' a final agreement to the bill as a schedule . 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
it will link us all , whether we are Canadian by birth or by choice . 
national Defence 
we also have a mortgage insurance program under which more than 475,000 houses are built and insured every year . 
bill read first time . 
division No. 2 
is that agreed ? 
does he not have any constituents calling about these new guys that are running our tax system in Canada ? 
hon. Michael Kirby : 
i also want to remind the hon. member and the House that when we are approving projects like the transitional jobs fund , we have to get the approval of the provincial governments and that includes the Government of Quebec . 
volume 138 , Issue 12 
if God is everywhere and " all knowing , " why would God have to ask where Adam stood ? 
Mr. Speaker , will the minister of Indian affairs tell the House whether he sought any legal advice pertaining to the Marshall decision before telling the Canadian public that the supreme court decision addressed native logging , mineral and offshore exploration rights ? 
motion No. 102 
however , in view of the circumstances in the air travel marketplace , a restructuring of Canada ' s airline industry resulting in one dominant airline appears likely . 
technology is altering every aspect of our lives . 
in answer to the Honourable Senator Kinsella , I do not know at the moment if there is a rule which sets that out . 
just yesterday , we talked about returning officers . 
hon. David M. Collenette 
to avoid all confusion and make sure that Quebecers can continue to benefit from a comprehensive system of personal information protection , we submit that Bill C - 54 should be amended to say clearly that the federal act will not apply to businesses covered by the Act respecting the Protection of Personal Information in the Private Sector . 
i think to some extent we can over the course of time . 
this means , therefore , that our researchers are productive in Quebec and excel in such fields as mental health , cancer research , genome research and biotechnology . 
third REPORT 
Mr. Guy St - Julien ( Abitibi - Baie - James - Nunavik , Lib . ) : 
it is an amazing area , with the Nass River that I mentioned earlier . 
indeed Your Honour was in the forefront of that struggle and will recall our visit to South Africa to celebrate the triumph of democracy in South Africa . 
given the natural beauty of the Nass Valley region it is likely the Nisga ' a will explore economic opportunities such as outfitting , wilderness camping , ecotourism and sport fishing . 
Mr. Speaker , I was very interested to hear the member from across the way talk about having the fiscal house in order . 
i will undertake to the member to look into his allegations if he will give me that information . 
we also believe in the opportunity for people to vote on constitutional amendments . 
Mr. Speaker , here is what people are reading about health care in today ' s newspapers : crowded emergency rooms , stretcher - bound waits for beds and ambulances roaming city streets searching for hospitals to take their patients . 
in partnership with the Government of Saskatchewan , the Government announced a $ 50 per acre benefit for those with unseeded acres . 
honourable senators , forgive me if I did not differentiate between " raw human ambition " , " greed " and the human need for approval by one ' s Queen , the Fount of Honour for their contributions to the common good . 
i do not believe for one second that they felt their passports would be taken away from them in the broader context . 
senator Beaudoin : 
on March 11 he expressed his reaction to Bill C - 3 . 
committee Authorized to Permit Electronic Coverage 
division No. 162 
i remind the government that action in this critical area is needed now . 
as everyone knows , the MNQ is a neutral association of patriots looking to advance the collective well - being of Quebecers . 
i am proud to say that in short order the government transformed the record deficit of $ 42 billion that we inherited from our predecessors to two consecutive balanced budgets , with a third on the way , and a growing budget surplus . 
Mr. Lynn Myers 
Mr. Rahim Jaffer ( Edmonton - Strathcona , Ref. ) : 
members 
honourable senators , it is clear that each case is unique . 
with respect , I stated that very thing to the Gitanyow chiefs who presented their case extremely well . 
we have worked with the European Union to get them to modify their grain import regime and reduce the duties on some grades of Canadian durum wheat . 
let us return to the case of the riding of Rosemont . 
my colleagues from the Reform Party , the Conservative Party , the Bloc and the Liberal Party , we are the ones who are responsible ultimately to answer to the constituents of this country for legislation . 
this is a staggering compilation of damage that no amount of obfuscation , such as referring to unintended collateral damage , can cover up . 
WESTRAY MINE 
this morning , Jacques Chirac pronounced it unacceptable , and Great Britain expressed consternation . 
and that is why they are say that they will go to Seattle and voice their disapproval of some points of view and especially of the negotiation process . 
there seems to have been very little appreciation of the enormous significance of these legal decisions , and I might say not only by the federal government but by the Government of Nova Scotia as well . 
in that particular instance , I revoked his mandatory supervision absolutely . 
will they be awarding these positions based on merit ? 
oral QUESTION PERIOD 
Mr. John Finlay 
we must pay more attention to our First Nations . 
the Quebec people accepted with great calm and dignity the close result in the 1995 referendum . 
audiovisual PRODUCTIONS 
the Government of Canada ' s response was filed in the House . 
those who rely on these industries and are seasonal workers do not benefit from that . 
they will argue that Canadian voters are perfectly capable of separating the wheat from the chaff and selecting the information that is meaningful to them . 
Mr. John Duncan 
perhaps it is easier to talk about atrocities because we have not witnessed them ourselves . 
hon. Lorna Milne : 
leave having been given to revert to Government Notices of Motion : 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron ( Verch è res - Les - Patriotes , BQ ) moved : 
the involvement here is one that benefits everybody , the local people insofar as jobs are provided , the province because of the taxes that accrue from the port , and the country as a whole because Vancouver port provides a gateway to the world for goods both exiting Canada or entering from afar . 
yet the justice minister refuses to budge . 
yeas 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron ( Verch è res - Les - Patriotes , BQ ) : 
some hon. members : 
Mrs. Karen Kraft Sloan ( York North , Lib . ) : 
quite frankly maybe that is the case but because most Quebecers do not want to live in the north why do we deny those persons and communities north of the 55 th parallel the opportunity to have a say ? 
for the minister to make statements that it is too complicated for the people of British Columbia to understand is an insult to the electorate . 
the modern reality is that many of us live in multiple dwellings . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron 
paired 
Mr. Preston Manning ( Leader of the Opposition , Ref. ) : 
when the bill was introduced , we in the New Democratic Party said - and I think other caucuses have said the same - that we support the concept behind the Canadian institutes of health research and we endorsed the principle of the bill at second reading . 
members 
there are many partners involved in the space station and many people from different countries working there . 
hon. Senators : 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. Speaker , since the supreme court ruling on the hunting and fishing rights of native Canadians , a crisis has grown in the lobster fishery on the east coast . 
a major force which helps to connect these families are airplanes . 
there is also an annual fishing plan , which the Department of Fisheries and Oceans will help prepare and which will reflect the needs of aboriginals and all parties . 
i will not stand here as an Ontario member and say it is easy for somebody who was a coal worker all of their life to suddenly turn around and become a computer engineer or take advantage of some of the new technologies . 
bill C - 22 . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
the title he gave to his article in Le Devoir , which has a reputation as a most serious newspaper , was the following " The 10 % rule : in the public interest '' . 
yeas 
it being 6.15 p.m. , pursuant to order made earlier this day , it is my duty to interrupt the proceedings and put forthwith every question necessary to dispose of the second reading stage of the bill now before the House . 
to my surprise , no one left . 
they called out my name and things of that sort . 
the tide in this country is , again , moving toward a return to capital punishment . 
the Sault is very proud of Phil and Tony Esposito . 
it is time we took a new approach to governance for the people of our country . 
Mr. Ken Epp : 
most youth who get into trouble with the law are dealt with by provincial authorities . 
we therefore find ourselves in another kind of debate with scientists , Health Canada employees , and all sorts of people on one side or the other , while the consumer , who is at the heart of the debate , cannot get a straight answer . 
on what constitutional authority is the government relying to introduce such legislation ? 
paired 
there are farmers . 
along with numerous other localities in Canada , Windsor - St. 
Skeptics may say that these are fine words , but what do they really mean ? 
it would never be repeated today . 
it is quite clear that the province of Quebec can place a question on a ballot . 
honourable senators , I should like to ask the minister whether he intends to tell his cabinet colleagues about a major issue in all regions of Canada , namely funding for health , social services and education . 
a lot of inputs are based on American money whether or not they are manufactured because there is a lot of that trade back and forth . 
but what has it done over the last six years in power ? 
was the member for South Surrey - White Rock - Langley given notice that this was going to come up ? 
our concern stems from the stated policies of the Freedom Party on human rights ; especially the treatment of foreigners , social justice and Austria ' s role in World War II. 
it could bring down the taxes on fuel . 
what I call fragmentary changes dramatically change our institutions and cause an ever greater rift between the two Houses . 
Mr. Speaker , first and foremost the hon. member should look at the list available to him now . 
that Bill C - 6 be amended by deleting Clause 46 . 
we have used the tax system to help those in need through the child tax benefit and we have been reducing the deficit . 
the House should take note of that . 
madam Speaker , the member talks about doing the right thing . 
along with the United States , the space station ' s other partners include Russia , Japan , Brazil and 11 other European countries . 
Quebec , for example , has already instituted a system of food traceability . 
that really irks us . 
the new institutes of health research will have one central co - ordinating body or governing council which will consist of a president and an advisory board of no more than 20 members . 
i took it seriously . 
i note simply that it was adopted by the Reform Party . 
hon. No ë l A . Kinsella ( Deputy Leader of the Opposition ) : 
Mr. Grant Hill 
that is the same motion that the government House leader read in its entirety a few minutes ago . 
i think we in government have an obligation to educate our people . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 297 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Speaker , it is with regret that I rise to inform the House of the passing of Ross Hall , a talented leader who died October 11 at West Lincoln Memorial Hospital in Grimsby . 
up until now , there was one area in which the power - hungry government had not interfered : the bottom of our waterways . 
the opposition has been gagged . 
i am a francophone , French Canadian , Catholic , Chicago conservative , a friend of the United States , and an ex - manager . 
rather than pushing ahead plan B every way they can , the Prime Minister and his professor minister should come up with a true constitutional vision . 
the Province of Ontario enacted similar legislation last year and the Government of Prince Edward Island passed a Holocaust Memorial Day law last week . 
paired 
it is not a question of duplicating what is done elsewhere , but a question of using what is available to enforce the principles that we have tried to adopt regarding human rights , and to implement them . 
does he support the closure of the coal mines or does he not ? 
i am sure that if our finance critic had had his advice in hand , he would have included that tax in his minority report . 
if we were to transpose that into our health care system , the savings would be astronomical . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 86 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
it cannot delay until the other committee has reported . 
an increase of 10 per cent in public spending leads to a decrease of 1.6 per cent in the rate of investment . 
even so , the figure is incomplete : 
Mr. Speaker , not knowing what caused the member for St. Albert ' s complaint about his wet chair , I am glad to have helped solve it . 
they presented their case . 
i see this problem existing in relation to Bill C - 23 as it now stands and any future bill on dependency relationships . 
Mr. Speaker , with respect to the future I only have to say to the member that if it were not for the strong will of all people on Cape Breton Island we would not have been able to have any future in the last 30 years . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 130 , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
taxation 
while we are talking about collective rights versus individual rights , I am again reminded of the bill we were discussing , the Nisga ' a so - called final agreement . 
Mr. Ken Epp 
why is the government being led by nine judges , rather than - 
in the instance of the Privacy Act where there are no penalties or downside to violating the act , how can any Canadian citizen feel good about expecting the privacy laws to protect him or her ? 
i am curious as to what length of time the member opposite feels is appropriate to have dialogue , consensus , committee meetings and so on . 
Mr. Speaker , I am pleased today to speak to Bill C - 2 , the Canada Elections Act . 
however , I can reassure all honourable senators that the entire issue of passenger rail service in this country is very much on the top of the minister ' s desk . 
madam Speaker , I do not believe I said such a word . 
as members can see , if we repeat things often enough to them , they finally see the light , at least this is what I hope . 
today , I am here to protect northern Canadians , and that is what I am going to do . 
i think we have to look at this . 
i would have liked to see the Senate sit , if not next week , at least the following one . 
absolutely not , Mr. Speaker . 
moreover , I would like to note the efforts of the member for St. Catharines , the former parliamentary secretary to the minister of industry , in terms of his credible defence of the government position . 
bill C - 373 . 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
motion No. 84 negatived 
the Senate 
honourable senators , when shall this report be taken into consideration ? 
this will be a chance to recognize that by lowering the voting age . 
whether it can be done from the bottom up or not remains to be seen . 
i will give a short historical outline for the benefit of those who wonder where the riding of Bonaventure - Gasp é - Î les - de - la - Madeleine - Pabok is located . 
however , these laws do not affect the private sector . 
several people in our own family have had cancer : both my wife and her father and several others . 
in preparing for question period every day it is important for us , in preparing our questions , to know what language we can or cannot use . 
i am pleased to say that our government already shares her concern on this question and has taken a number of steps to help low income Canadians generally and to ensure Canadians have access to quality housing . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 66 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
there was a great operation called Green Ice which was a co - operation of eight countries around the world on drug enforcement . 
there is also similar legislation in Quebec . 
Mr. Speaker , following the Prime Minister ' s announcement that he wants to table a bill denying Quebecers their basic rights , I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to table a paper that will enlighten the House . 
i further point out that even I as chair did not have access to that minority report until Thursday , December 16 and that appeared in the paper on Wednesday , December 15 . 
higher education is of the utmost importance to the future of Ontario . 
- trust in the institutions of government is not a partisan issue , but something all of us elected to public office have an obligation to restore . 
several witnesses maintained that legitimate public concerns about youth violence must be met with accurate information about actual crime rates and about the operation of the youth justice system . 
some hon. members : 
however , I think it is eminently fair that the committee should take into account the jeopardy a witness may face and to give that witness notice of how the committee proposes to proceed . 
i could go on . 
Mr. Randy White 
" ( 3 ) Any Agreement entered into pursuant to subsection ( 1 ) shall be laid before Parliament and referred to the appropriate committee . " 
i listened to Senator Fraser . 
the establishment across Canada felt that the Charlottetown accord was the best invention since penicillin . 
contents 
that will have the effect of lowering production around the world of certain commodities , in particular export grains . 
the Supreme Court has indicated quite clearly that the issues of clarity , as they surround the question and the consequences , are clearly issues in which the federal government and all provincial governments should be involved . 
Mr. Dick Proctor ( Palliser , NDP ) : 
while the Reformers are keen to focus on the internal audit of administration , they conveniently ignore separate evaluations of results . 
whether you believe that the Government of Canada should have limited the veto to the House of Commons or whether you believe they should have also extended that right of veto to the Senate , that is an issue of policy . 
WTO critics complain that the WTO favours big business interests and undermines the survival of the family farm which is very important to all of us . 
( division 711 ) 
( division 196 ) 
i can understand the desire of many to take pictures when there are so many photogenic subjects in the House . 
things like that help . 
motion No. 33 negatived 
Mr. Speaker , last year the defence committee produced a report about the significant quality of life problems faced by Canadian forces members , problems with pay , housing and support for families . 
Mr. Speaker , my question is for the Minister of Public Works and Government Services . 
she slags anybody who disagrees not on the basis of the issue or not on the basis of the substance of the treaty but on the basis that we somehow have dark motives , that we are somehow people of lower moral character because we do not agree with the government ' s policy direction . 
as I said earlier , self - employed workers in our communities , such as a small carpenter who works in a shed at the back of his house or a computer expert whose business is set up in his basement , are already adversely affected by a number of existing laws . 
there is a difference between those who engage in criminal activity and the important examples which he has given of those people who in the execution of their professional duties as crime fighters or peacekeepers have suffered or had cause to be concerned about whether they had been infected with hepatitis B , hepatitis C or HIV . 
the University of Waterloo is the backbone of our high tech industry with engineering , mathematics and computer science graduates . 
following three years of negotiations , all parties signed the revised international agreement on the space station on January 29 , 1998 , officially bringing Russia into the partnership . 
motion No. 4 
senator Forrestall : 
motion No. 244 negatived 
Mr. Pierre de Savoye 
what specific steps is Canada taking to help ensure a successful transition to independence by the courageous people of East Timor ? 
that is not a point of order . 
we should like , among other things , to remedy the fact that the legislation does not require the government to take steps towards phasing out even a handful of the worst toxic pollutants . 
some hon. members : 
it has spent all its time taking democracy away from Canadians . 
this is unbelievable for a crime that has extremely serious consequences for the people being smuggled , for Canadian society and for the taxpayers of this country and other countries that may be involved in this crime . 
the next question is on Motion No. 264 . 
and using the word debate is a sham . 
it would appear from the information we have that the shooting was related directly to organized crime . 
i want to wish Senator Boudreau a lengthy and rewarding stay here , but at the same time , I , along with many others , hope that this government ' s time left in office is as short as possible . 
health 
is there some kind of magical outer space area that will settle these problems here on Earth , for example through the use of the GPS ? 
however , I can comment on the position of the government , and I am confident that the principle of service to small communities will be maintained as a central feature of government policy . 
in Bill C - 2 we had a chance to enable the public and the House to democratize the House , to truly put democracy back into the equation , but we have failed again . 
i point out , for instance in this group , the amendment of the government that gives the Chief Electoral Officer the power to extend voting hours where an emergency has closed the polls for a certain period of time during the day . 
egg receipts have increased slightly , while dairy receipts grew by $ 299 million to close to $ 4 billion for that same period . 
the bill would also provide a favourable and generous tax treatment of lease financing for the purchase of Canadian built ships . 
yet , Quebec has continued to contribute more than Canada , allowing Canada to build up its resources , which , as we now know , have become surpluses the importance of which we will find out on Monday . 
petitions 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of orders . 
in the decision there was no compensation provided to the woman whose privacy was inappropriately violated . 
v - notching was considered . 
it is a nice picture , but it is not totally true . 
it is my duty , pursuant to Standing Order 38 , to inform the House that the questions to be raised tonight at the time of adjournment are as follows : the hon. member for Bras d ' Or - Cape Breton , Devco ; the hon. member for Dauphin - Swan River , Agriculture . 
the Iranian people have spoken . 
the remembrance ceremonies in communities across the country serve to highlight the fact that for some women the physical scars may heal while the emotional scars that violence leaves on these women will take a lifetime to mend and will require change in our society . 
oh , oh . 
if we transferred that formula to Canada , where Saskatchewan and Manitoba are having trouble in getting finances , this formula would solve it . 
first , it disposes of municipal solid waste in an environmentally responsible way and second , it meets our Kyoto commitment to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases . 
i find it quite interesting to hear my hon. colleague from Quebec say that we should not be imposing a life sentence . 
every constitutional lawyer , or anyone who has taken the trouble to study this matter realizes that that is what was done . " ; 
i would now like to illustrate some of my concern over this provision which retains primacy of the law to this agreement . 
obviously the CEQ did not engage much in raiding activities , because it is involved in the education sector . 
it is my understanding that a person is supposed to rise in his or her place to be counted for a vote . 
Mr. John Solomon 
it does not stop there . 
division No. 657 
i can go around here and name all those who helped . 
the appeal overthrew the decision and a new trial was ordered . 
the articles of this agreement - I will not read all of it , as members will find it appended to the bill - first define the purpose and scope of the bill . 
that came from the witnesses . 
if there is that insistence , the deadline should be regarded as flexible . 
i congratulate the speakers who have entered into the debate . 
every time I have entered into an agreement it has been with someone else . 
Mr. Speaker , I am not sure what the numbers mean , but I can describe the bills . 
we will , of course , support the Bloc Quebecois motion asking for the committee to travel . 
i will hear the hon. member for Langley - Abbotsford . 
senator Boudreau : 
it disturbs me that we seem to be merely looking at this issue on a year - by - year basis , while farmers are suffering . 
legislated segregation does not work . 
where is the new creative thinking ? 
it was a very paternalistic and narrow view taken by the minister . 
sections 2 , 4 , 6 et 7 come into force on April 6 , 2004 and the remaining provisions of this Act come into " 
the Charter of Rights and Freedoms sets out in section 25 that the Charter rights : 
members 
agreed . 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
* * * 
they knew that if they needed someone who could do explosive work , Cape Breton miners would respond and would risk their lives , which some of them did , to build this country . 
members should read the story of the original march west by the RCMP if they want a story of overcoming hardship . 
honourable senators , I had the pleasure last week of meeting and having supper with the Minister of Agriculture from Nova Scotia , who was in Ottawa , along with his provincial counterparts , to negotiate a new federal - provincial agreement with the federal minister . 
yeas 
we must remember that there is no regulated fishery right now . 
" whereas the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms applies to the Nisga ' a Government in respect of all matters within its authority ; " 
let us look at what the Speech from the Throne said . 
i have worked closely with these people . 
the examples that the hon. member has referred to were bad enough . 
Mr. Derek Lee ( Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons , Lib . ) : 
* * * 
that is accountability both to its own members and to the governments from which it will derive some of its funding . 
my office indicated to me that on February 24 a response was tabled to the of the honourable senator ' s question . 
Mr. Speaker , last year the provinces defined what was full restoration of the health transfer portion of the CHST and that is exactly what the government did last year . 
Mr. Speaker , we are beginning , in this House today , a historical debate for Quebec , the debate on Bill C - 20 . 
hon. Robert D . Nault 
we can ask how the treaty will help to engage the peoples in the World Trade Organization . 
we wish we had more resources . 
i am anxious to respond to the Speech from the Throne because once again Canadians were forced to endure the platitudes of a political party committed to an unworkable big government agenda . 
plight of Homeless - Status of Government Strategy 
some hon. members : 
the proposition produces a certain amount of difficulty in that the Senate has no knowledge of the matter the honourable senator is proposing because , as I understand it , the committee never reported that bill to the Senate . 
the Criminal Code is therefore being clarified to specify that such an order shall not be made if the prosecutor advises the court that the person ' s DNA profile is already in the national DNA data bank . 
the next question is on Motion No. 415 . 
does he believe that the Liberal Party and the government want something like this to happen and want us to hear more witnesses ? 
but the fact that the hon. member for Lac - Saint - Louis has made his position known leads me to making the following comment . 
i would like to talk about the idea of ministerial responsibility because the Prime Minister said that the ministers would be responsible . 
it is fair . 
hon. Senators : 
next Monday shall be an allotted day . 
( division 265 ) 
the committee ' s long - term mandate contains no clues as to the nature of the short - term agreements to be worked out right now for the fishery . 
the reality is that there is nothing in this legislation and in the treaty that does not fully empower this parliament to devolve certain privileges in law to the Nisga ' a people . 
government ORDERS 
let us set the record straight - 
it was a struggle to gradually have economic barriers removed . 
we are a free and democratic country . 
look at him now , smiling and enjoying all the good words that we are saying about him . 
in fact , there is a bill already in the House that will be coming up for second reading as soon as it can be arranged among House leaders . 
weeks later , on April 17 , 1967 , in the House of Commons , Attorney General Sir Elwyn Jones made a similar statement . 
Mr. Ghislain Lebel ( Chambly , BQ ) : 
senator Oliver : 
federal and provincial laws prevail to the extent of conflict . 
taxation 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
senator Fraser : 
can disdain for parliamentary democracy be expressed more clearly ? 
yeas 
this is what Nisga ' a does . 
hon. J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the Government ) : 
yesterday , Premier Tobin said that unequivocally the Marshall decision does not apply to Newfoundland . 
last year the fertilizer institute talked about 20 % of its costs being government taxes on its product . 
it turned out that two other almost babies had committed the crime . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
we are out of time . 
i do not think that is inconsistent . 
Ramadan ends with the Festival of Eid Ul - Fitr which means breaking the fast . 
we either perpetuate the inequality or we do nothing . 
i declare Motions Nos. 7 , 55 , 58 and 98 lost . 
yeas 
i said to these people " Same sex partners will be recognized , and parliamentarians will take this profoundly significant step because individuals and groups in society have spoken out and said they were involved in same sex relationships , they were living true love with all of its heights and its depths , with its obligations and its benefits , and demanded to be given full consideration '' . 
from the work of one man to a dedicated group of community minded volunteers Chemainus is indeed the little town that did . 
that is how we created 1.9 million new jobs since the government was formed . 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
and , in recent years , every Tuesday the Senate is sitting , the Deputy Leader of the Government almost invariably seeks leave to move a motion to have the Senate meet at 1:30 p.m. on Wednesday rather than at 2:00 p.m. 
the Speaker : 
both teams were present , unlike 1972 when the Russians did not show after losing . 
as well , certain conventions contain a provision for exemption or a maximum of 5 per cent on royalties relating to copyright , software , patents and know - how . 
senator Cohen : 
members 
Mr. Michel Gauthier 
due process should not mean disappearance instead of deportation . 
graduate students will be looking for leaders , proven stars in research , to assist them in their research projects . 
some hon. members : 
i would like the folks watching the debate this afternoon to be aware of exactly what this section provides . 
some hon. members : 
on the Order : 
the Speaker : 
we have received the application . 
madam Speaker , I am debating the bill before the House , Bill C - 4 . 
i learned it in politics , particularly in my last election campaign against a Liberal candidate . 
i will keep my comments relatively brief rather than ramble on at length as the member opposite did . 
i point my finger at the provincial governments as well . 
Canadians want fairness . 
there remains , we must admit , however , a long way to go in the area of language of work . 
i say that these programs will lose their legitimacy because people will not support them if they believe that they will become part of a propaganda tool . 
there is as well an important third area of research , health systems services . 
Mr. St é phan Tremblay 
it can then be considered by the Foreign Affairs Committee if that is the wish of the Senate . 
our Prime Minister must show leadership and intervene immediately with Premier Harris in order to defend the bilingual nature of Ottawa . 
they perceived a virtual conflict of interest because as more and more groups achieved self - governing status , there will be less and less reason for DIAND to exist . 
the Minister of Finance clearly indicated , on the question of health funding , for example , an openness to looking at the problem and the challenges for our systems at even greater length . 
these are the cornerstones of the framework , but some work remains to be done before this framework can put into effect . 
would it be to say that no province or no people within a province could vote democratically and make decisions on what they want to do ? 
i found quotations from my Liberal colleagues when they sat in these very benches . 
paired 
we have no hidden agenda . 
the Speaker : 
if questions asked in the past were clear then obviously future questions will always be seen as unacceptable by English Canada . 
Mr. Gurmant Grewal 
the next question is on Motion No. 63 . 
some hon. members : 
that all matters on the Orders of the Day and on the Notice Paper , which have not been reached , shall retain their position . 
Mr. Paul Forseth 
question No. 59 - Mr. Jean - Guy Chr é tien : 
* * * 
the government is focusing on not only the domestic dimension of this issue but the international one . 
perhaps the honourable senator is in a hurry today . 
some hon. members : 
that is not the case at all . 
the Speaker : 
that is the way our dysfunctional parliamentary system is operating in Canada these days . 
is cabinet listening ? 
Mr. Speaker , the government through the agriculture minister has announced AIDA - II. 
division No. 497 
No. Do they have the right to discuss or to work with them ? 
is it agreed , honourable senators , that the bill be placed on the Orders of the Day for second reading on Thursday next , December 16 , 1999 ? 
the Deputy Speaker : 
the phone was about to be cut off . 
the bill requires that people who have been harmed by insider trading will have wider scope for seeking civil remedies , and it provides that the takeover bid provisions will be repealed , since provincial securities acts adequately cover this area . 
a private sector director is a tourism operator . 
nays 
i will also be looking for solutions to the problems I have enumerated today . 
we ask the questions of the government and it either chooses to ignore them completely or it answers something that is totally irrelevant to what was asked in the first place . 
introduction and first reading 
agriculture 
Mr. Steve Mahoney 
i realize that the interpreters , who did not get the text of the amendment in French or English , have not translated . 
i also have eyes and I can see when somebody shakes his head to say no . 
division No. 440 
i do not think that we should judge countries randomly . 
Mr. Jim Gouk ( Kootenay - Boundary - Okanagan , Ref. ) : 
this government might be well advised to stop going around preaching and giving lessons on political funding and organization , especially when we know how it appoints returning officers , when we know it came up with such a " thick " bill , no pun intended , and when we know there is still no requirement regarding voters ' identification . 
i invite Your Honour to look at this now and determine the question . 
that is the kind of commitment it has to health care . 
Mr. Werner Schmidt ( Kelowna , Ref. ) : 
one of our biggest concerns , and I am sure we will hear more about this in committee , is whether or not this legislation advances our agenda for independent scientific investigation into the root causes of ill health . 
i bow before such versatility , or " polyvalence " , which allows our senator to jump from political theory to political practice . 
what the Liberals and Tories have done to the shipbuilding industry in Canada is a study on what not to do in terms of productivity . 
we are already reasonably successful , but we could be really successful with that kind of co - operation . 
first , however , I wish to congratulate Senator Stollery for his competent and clear presentation of this bill . 
as a result the government ' s resolve to tackle the problem hardened . 
RCMP 
therefore the petitioners call upon parliament to repeal section 13 ( 5 ) of the Canada Post Corporation Act . 
i assume that the member believed what he said , that it is not a good deal for the Nisga ' a people . 
paired 
the Bloc Quebecois can only deplore the partisan nature of these appointments , something which is unacceptable in a process as democratic as an election . 
i also listened with great interest to the remarks of the government member on the Standing Committee on Public Works and Government Services . 
obviously the member for Davenport is trying to distinguish himself , or perhaps distance himself , from the rest of his Liberal colleagues who have continuously demonstrated to the Canadian people by their decision not to cancel the GST or change the free trade agreement that they could care less whether they break their promises to the Canadian public . 
i know the government has a hard time with those words when it comes to taxpayer dollars , but in this act that it what is intended : responsibility and accountability . 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to inform you right away that I will be sharing my time with the hon. member for Ahuntsic . 
with respect to resources and the kind of commitment that are necessary to deal with young people , the hon. member makes a very good point in terms of the local police agencies having the kind of resources necessary to do the job effectively and well . 
that is an absolute shame . 
i could not believe that a system could be run so corruptly . 
there will then be two systems in place in Quebec , one that protects people properly , and one that protects them far less well . 
motion No. 214 
will the government do that ? 
is that agreed ? 
senator Stratton : 
as a matter of fact , money spent promoting tourism produces the biggest , and the fastest , bang for the buck . 
Mr. Speaker , I would vote yes to this motion . 
it seems obvious to me that the government must take action as quickly as possible to end the discrimination that continues to exist against rural route mail couriers . 
that is not funny . 
No. 
the consent of applicants must always be obtained and they may always withdraw their application if they do not wish to disclose their file to the organization doing the screening . 
voluntary groups have the unique ability to reach deep into society to ensure that the public as a whole knows about particular services that might benefit them . 
there is nothing there that allows for taxation without representation . 
the committee report does not even mention the possibility of employment insurance reform , even though it now covers only 42 % of the unemployed . 
i declare Motion No. 62 lost . 
i believe that the government has lost its commitment to the Canadian forces . 
in this treaty Canada has agreed to contribute $ 10.3 million to the Nisga ' a $ 3.1 million to create a trust to promote the conservation and protection of Nass area fish species . 
the hon. member for Calgary Southeast . 
i am talking of the true dream that is caught in the web of the past as it meets the wind of the future . 
motion agreed to . 
there have already been appointments as surprising as this within the present selection process . 
i think we are all sensitive to that particular point . 
this now brings the petitions up to over half a million from across Canada asking the government to take action on the very serious issue of possession of child pornography in British Columbia . 
obviously , I am not in a position to give his response at this point in time . 
it will have to get into that subject and it would be better to do it sooner rather than later . 
it is my hope that this private member ' s bill will receive support from my colleagues so we can effectively address this national problem . 
hon. Lyle Vanclief 
he recommended a book , which I read . 
( division 746 ) 
she got a half million dollars from the minister ' s special reserve . 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
Mr. Dale Johnston 
honourable senators , this makes a person question how many applicants and recipients of the billions in HRDC largesse thought the same way . 
while I feel I must support the passage of Bill C - 5 , I do not do this without some reservations with regard to the Liberal government ' s policies toward tourism and tourist operators . 
members 
we believe we ' ve got to create an environment to encourage domestic competition to the new carrier ... 
that is a limited number ; we are only going to hear 45 witnesses . 
the best example is what is going on right now in the high tech industry where we see all kinds of people who are trying to start businesses moving to the United States and other countries around the world . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 90 , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
i would like that confirmed by the Chair . 
Mrs. Marlene Jennings : 
* * * 
there have been very informal consultations . 
it is as simple as that . 
Mrs. Rose - Marie Ur 
Mr. Rick Laliberte 
madam Speaker , I thank the hon. member for the question . 
Mr. John Maloney 
consumers in Toronto think that farmers have obtained $ 2 billion . 
i had breakfast with him on Saturday and he told me " Why would it not apply to me when I die ? 
that is not a point of order . 
moreover , the needs of Canada ' s veterans are becoming more urgent as these veterans get older . 
honourable senators , I wanted to move the adjournment of the debate . 
No. 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron ( Verch è res - Les - Patriotes , BQ ) moved : 
TEMPSDEM DANCE COMPANY 
we must be able to get the Canadian forces to where they are needed and get them there fast . 
larger recipients like Vid é otron and Bombardier do not need grants to encourage them to hire people . 
if this bill only provokes a debate on the role of Royal Assent in the legislative process , then it will have been more than worthwhile . 
this tournament is an important part of the holiday festivities in Burlington . 
some hon. members : 
senator Lewis is a lawyer in private practice . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
the word " clarity " comes up repeatedly . 
dealing with the start - up problems noted above will add a significant challenge to administration of the program for the fiscal year 1999 / 2000 . 
hon. Jane Stewart 
obviously , the government is not listening to the points being brought forward about some of the dire consequences once it is rammed through parliament . 
that Bill C - 9 be amended by adding after line 29 on page 7 the following new clause : 
yesterday we had our first meeting . 
what is at the crux of it ? 
in order for the Nisga ' a to attract economic development , their laws and decisions will have to be open and transparent with their administrative policies and review and appeal procedures both clear and fair . 
is this reasonable ? 
the federal government has agreed , in some cases , to allow provincial ministers to be part of Canadian delegations abroad and sometimes to act as chair or vice - chair at certain functions . 
he said that as one goes through life , one has many individuals who are acquaintances , but one has very few friends . 
that is something that does not equate to broad consultation on something this important . 
that Vote 5 a in the amount of $ 7,285,972 , under HEALTH - Grants and contributions , in the Supplementary Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2000 , be concurred in . 
that hateful crime brought much - needed attention to victims of gender - based violence . 
the third is the anti - gang legislation passed in April 1997 , the main thrust of which is inclusion in criminal law of the definition of gang . 
if the government does nothing , Canadian will likely go under and all its workers will lose their jobs . 
Mr. Greg Thompson : 
equality 
this past year many farmers have knocked on the doors of my constituency offices looking for solutions and asking what the federal government is going to do to help them . 
the report recommended that no political party should ever have a majority in a reformed House of Lords and specified that at least 20 per cent of the appointments , the equivalent of 110 members , must be independents with no political affiliation . 
i can sympathize with a Prime Minister who does not want to answer serious , serious charges against his government , but the fact of the matter is that these are public moneys that were clearly shovelled out the door in enormous piles just before an election . 
Mr. Speaker , this week is eating disorder awareness week . 
our grain farmers are supported by something like 65 cents to 75 cents per bushel of wheat . 
our system right now is very costly . 
as I said on Tuesday , the government is prepared to consider increasing the limit - and only to consider increasing it - to a new level to be decided following input from parliamentarians - after debate here , in this House and in the Senate , for example - if such a measure contributes to achieving a healthy , Canadian controlled airline industry . 
does the hon. parliamentary secretary have the unanimous consent of the House to propose the motion ? 
in partnership with the Government of Saskatchewan , the Government introduced a $ 50 per acre benefit for those with unseeded acres . 
i know of a lot of other instances . 
hon. Don Boudria : 
Mr. Randy White ( Langley - Abbotsford , Ref. ) : 
Mrs. Marlene Jennings 
airline INDUSTRY 
we should have a better choice . 
criminal Code 
agreed . 
but there are organizations that already do that very well . 
it is a wilderness area located on the mainland of British Columbia in the coastal mountain range . 
i note that it is about 25 % of the size of the constituency I have the privilege of representing in Saskatchewan . 
motion No. 93 
this is a serious situation . 
despite its sympathy , in the budgets tabled since the 1997 report of the Standing Committee on Finance , the government has still not introduced the tax deduction needed to resolve this problem . 
your Committee , which was authorized by the Senate on December 16 , 1999 to examine and report upon the state of the health care system in Canada , respectfully requests that it be empowered to engage the services of such counsel and technical , clerical and other personnel that may be necessary . 
is our military conducting tests on our Canadian veterans to find out if they also have this poison within their bodies ? 
they noted the fact that some jurists said that it was ultra vires and some jurists said that it was completely within our power , and some jurists said something in between , and the Canadian Bar Association concluded that all of these positions have some constitutional justification . 
these are challenges that will define how we promote , protect and improve the health of Canadians over the next decades . 
i am not so pretentious as to think he is a member of my fan club , but I do think he is a friend . 
we have stuck to that plan and it has worked . 
however , we must say that Quebec ' s Act respecting the protection of personal information in the private sector is a good one . 
the Minister is refusing to enlighten this House . 
Attendu que le Parlement estime que des Instituts de recherche en sant é doivent ê tre cr éé s en vue de coordonner , de centraliser et d ' int é grer la recherche en mati è re de sant é selon les principes suivants : 
Mr. Jim Gouk ( Kootenay - Boundary - Okanagan , Ref. ) : 
Mr. Speaker , NDP members present this evening vote nay . 
i could not agree more . 
i read just recently that for every hour one of these Sea Kings flies requires 30 hours of maintenance . 
business of the Senate 
i want to discuss briefly an amendment , Amendment No. 124 , which was initiated by my colleague , the member for Longueuil . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
the audit commissioned by CIDA Inc. concluded that the benefits were overestimated and that information on projects and companies were incomplete and inaccurate . 
members 
however we can and must learn from the past . 
division on Motion No. 12 deferred 
merchant NAVY 
he transcribed all of those sittings of the Senate to know who was or was not there and who was collecting his taxpayer dollars to sit or not sit in that place on his behalf . 
listen to what this finance minister once said : " The lack of affordable housing accelerates the cycle of poverty , which is reprehensible in a society as rich as ours , and the government sits there and does nothing '' . 
Mr. Nelson Riis ( Kamloops , Thompson and Highland Valleys , NDP ) : 
the minister may or may not accept their recommendation . 
who is better placed than Quebec to defend the interests of farmers ? 
petitions 
the 1999 budget called for $ 11.5 billion to go to the provinces and territories for health . 
it needs to be corrected . 
they are not and they may never be perfect , but we must all work together to improve and multiply them . 
second Report of Committee Adopted 
Mr. Speaker , the last time I wanted to table a document , members opposite rejected my request without giving it proper consideration , since you asked for unanimous consent before I could even say what it was all about . 
Mr. Speaker , the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs has clarified his view of the evolution of federalism saying that the federalist status quo was working fine , when it is he who proclaims at every opportunity that the federal system is flexible and changing . 
i hope that history will record that this government missed a golden opportunity to promote democracy and especially representation . 
however , over the course of the past four or five years , there was also a scandal over the use of social insurance numbers , because in Canada there were more people over the age of 100 than in the entire world with a social insurance number . 
court Martial of Sergeant Mike Kipling 
this climate can only improve Canada ' s economic relations with each of these countries . 
i was present as well at the hearing held in Prince George because part of the beautiful city of Prince George is in my riding as well as in the riding of the member for Prince George - Bulkley Valley . 
" ( h ) subject to paragraph ( h .1 ) , the name and address of each contribu - " 
this means that Nisga ' a laws will be subject to the charter , like the entire decision making process of the Nisga ' a government with respect to such things as licensing or the sale of lands . 
first , he feels that members of parliament ought to go out in their communities and seek input during the prebudget consultation period . 
i do not believe you asked for that . 
i commend this publication to honourable senators for reading . 
of the money that was announced , even before the most recent announcement yesterday , around 25 % has actually reached farmers to help them . 
it does not make sense . 
how can events be followed over the long term if the programs change ? 
Dr. Zitner believes that it is essential that pertinent legislation ensures that health organizations , governments and research institutes can use information collected for care to support research and quality improvement activities , with appropriate protections for security , privacy and confidentiality . 
it is in this larger optic , because many people in western Canada are also following the debate , that I intervene . 
the justices ought perhaps to go so far as to call for a monument to honour the memory of Governor Lawrence , the signatory of the 1760 document , to be erected on the lawns of the Supreme Court , as a lasting reminder of the weight of their decision . 
madam Speaker , pursuant to Standing Order 36 I am pleased to present a petition on behalf of many of my constituents as well as people from Humboldt , Saskatchewan , Zehner , Saskatchewan , Lake Lenore , Moose Jaw , Sintaluta , Saskatoon , Green Lake , La Loche , Prince Albert , Kelowna , Yorkton and other parts of the country . 
the honourable senator speaks of our role preceding the presentation of a constitutional amendment . 
it was rather difficult for a subject to pay taxes on the full assessed value of his residence and see that the Queen or the central government did not pay taxes on federal buildings in municipalities . 
the government will also clarify the process to be followed when a taxing authority is unwilling or unable to provide a service to federal property which it customarily provides to taxable property . 
five years later , his former association says : " Bill C - 6 is garbage , it should be thrown out . " 
CANADIAN HERITAGE 
i should like to hear Senator Taylor ' s response in the sense that I hope the committee in the Senate will also begin to review that bill as quickly as possible . 
private MEMBERS ' BUSINESS 
i appeal to all the ministers from Quebec , the Minister of Public Works , the Secretary of State for Amateur Sport . 
nuclear INDUSTRY 
that is exactly what we are going to do in Seattle . 
as for the second part of the motion concerning punishing those who breach privacy concerns , I think there may be more weight to this section . 
as such , we are standing on the forward edge of a new era where digital technology will move beyond anything we can imagine and will provide government with the tools to marry the past and future into a seamless venue to attract and amaze viewers . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
there are hate groups here , as well : the Ku Klux Klan , White Power Canada , the Nationalist Party of Canada , and the Heritage Front . 
like the member who just spoke , I too am shocked and appalled at some of the tone and the content of the arguments I have heard in the House of Commons as the bill is debated . 
what about sexual assault using a weapon ? 
we want to make sure , for example , that our environment is being protected . 
all other segments of Canadian society have an ombudsman ' s office somewhere that they can turn to . 
yeas 
Montreal is well placed to be at the leading edge of the knowledge based economy . 
as I said at the beginning of my speech , this is an extremely powerful tool with important repercussions for our justice system and our society . 
how can he base his position on this opinion when it refers 57 times to negotiation in order to claim that any recourse to the word " negotiation " in the question would make that question obscure and unacceptable ? 
the only people who would benefit from the Reform Party tax plan would be corporations and rich Canadians . 
Mr. Speaker , 60 years ago more than 1.7 million Polish soldiers and citizens were arrested and deported simply because they were Polish . 
we are all anxious to have government business which needs to be done so that we can attend to it in a timely way . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
our western neighbours are struggling tremendously , yet the federal government is not there to help . 
where are the members for Bourassa , Saint - Laurent - Cartierville and Verdun - Saint - Henri hiding ? 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron ( Verch è res - Les - Patriotes , BQ ) : 
let us facilitate the parties moving to the negotiating table . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron : 
when we go through it and think of what it took to get to that point , it is as near to perfect as anything can get when there is that kind of process . 
other senators have covered your professorial bent sufficiently , so I will not go into that . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 458 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
Mr. Speaker , I appreciate your intervention . 
the government ' s best effort to create jobs has been to encourage the conditions that often create low paying , part time , contractual jobs with no benefits . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
does that mean that they cannot steal cars on Tuesdays and Thursdays ? 
motion No. 120 
most important , finalization of a sale will also confirm the continuance of good solid coal mining jobs in a commercial private sector operation . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 63 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
the school is asking for $ 15 from each parent sponsoring a tree to cover the cost of its planting . 
clearly , it is time to update the legislation to deal with these problems that have presented themselves in recent years . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
i understand Senator Lynch - Staunton ' s point as well as the one Senator Comeau is making . 
the new legislation would make it easier to impose adult sentences for the most serious violent crimes . 
we have to be sure the seasonal workers who participate in those industries are looked after adequately . 
Mr. Peter Stoffer 
i believe this to be a very serious matter of privilege , and I believe there was agreement with that in this chamber before prorogation . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
they are removed from their positions . 
division No. 191 
agreed . 
the sub judice convention has been applied consistently in criminal cases . 
the closure of the Devco mine has already shown us how devastating the failure of an industry can be . 
i would also like to thank all the volunteers who work day and night from coast to coast and who , as such , are not paid of course . 
the proposed legislation also makes an important reform to youth justice sentencing to foster the safe and effective reintegration of youth back into the communities . 
Ms. Alexa McDonough ( Halifax , NDP ) : 
because 1982 was a mistake , because 1982 was an injustice , because Quebecers want to run their own country , those on the other side want to stop them . 
how I would like to see the Prime Minister go to the national assembly of France and predict to its members and senators that within 15 to 20 years France will no longer be a sovereign country . 
for example , freedom of conscience and freedom of religion are recognized in international treaty law , and she has alluded to the fact that China has submitted the instruments of ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights . 
it says here that Bombardier was awarded a $ 2.8 billion contract , over a 20 year period , without a call for tenders , to maintain aircraft and train pilots for NATO . 
it is somewhat unfair that people who have to defend ideas must first get financing and that such financing can be easier to obtain when major corporations like these ideas . 
one of the thorns in the sides of municipal leaders all over this great country is the way the federal government looks down on municipalities and does not deal with them the way municipalities feel is right and necessary . 
i declare Motion No. 192 lost . 
in case the people listening , either in the House , in the galleries or on television , are not aware , we are debating Bill C - 13 today . 
in the matter of abortion , for example , doctors are required neither to perform abortions nor even to refer clients to abortionists . 
anyone who wants to get out of combat duty isn ' t really crazy . " 
the mandate of the commission is to promote tourism products . 
we should discuss where the issues take place . 
a lot depends on how the debate goes . 
in paragraph 153 , the court also specifies : 
opening OF THE SECOND SESSION OF THE 36 TH PARLIAMENT 
miss Deborah Grey 
we also know that the CSIS employee responsible has not been disciplined and is still being paid by the Canadian taxpayer . 
the court mentions that the negotiations that would follow a clear majority vote in favour of secession " would address the potential act of secession as well as its possible terms should in fact secession proceed '' . 
CHIAPAS 
some hon. members : 
lamb then created the National Library and drafted the National Library Act of 1952 . 
this petition contains 520 signatures . 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
motion No. 129 
i still have many things to say . 
abolition of Nuclear Weapons 
all those opposed will please say nay . 
aboriginals and the government parties will rely less on the courts as a primary forum for resolving disputes . 
the Speaker : 
on the agricultural side of it , we know that there have been what I would have to carefully call some flip - flops by some hon. members . 
i see this in my constituency . 
Mr. John Cannis 
Mr. Paul Cr ê te : 
senators Spivak and Senator Andreychuk brought to my attention the fact that farmers were being forced to pay $ 400 or $ 500 or $ 600 to an accountant to file the application forms . 
equality 
senator Roche : 
this is unacceptable , it is undemocratic and we will repeat it both in this House and in committee . 
what we need is a tax policy whose primary objective is to regain the ground lost in relation to our neighbours , especially as regards increased productivity . 
the bill does not bring that into question . 
farmers need help desperately and they need it now . 
paired 
there are 600,000 Canadians who are no longer paying taxes . 
organized crime is also rampant in bureaucratic societies . 
statements BY MEMBERS 
Canadians are outraged , honourable senators . 
an hon. member : 
the Speaker : 
after a long standoff , the boat was forced to return to India without disembarking any of its passengers . 
i think Paul ' s support over there is running very thin . 
it is unacceptable in a democracy for the Prime Minister to appoint Liberal Party loyalists to key positions like a returning officer in every riding of the country . 
without any partisanship , Mr. Speaker , I bet this bill will barely live long enough for the committee to complete its consideration of it . 
division on Motion No. 8 deferred 
airline INDUSTRY 
hon. Francis William Mahovlich : 
they know the nature of the work . 
why would we take a race based policy , one that is not based on equality of people , entrench it in the constitution and create a future for us that will be just what we are seeing in Atlantic Canada now , what we have seen in B.C. and the comments we are hearing in our constituencies ? 
i say to my Reform colleague that I hope he will always manage to understand the importance for Canadians and for Quebecers of recognizing the aboriginal nations . 
do you still think we should continue to be part of that country ? " 
guess what ? 
hon. Lucienne Robillard 
Mr. Peter Adams ( Peterborough , Lib . ) : 
the omission of property rights from section 7 of the charter greatly reduces the scope of the charter in this regard . 
Mr. Irwin Cotler 
( title agreed to ) 
the Canadian Navy and Air Force require strategic sea and airlift assets to support joint operations if the Army is to have any credible role in future multilateral military operations . 
my problem is , and I would like the member to be quite clear on this point , I wonder if he is concerned about the way we treat our minorities and the way we will treat our minorities in the future . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 74 , which was negatived on the following division : ) 
the conventions with Usbekistan , Bulgaria , Algeria and Kyrgyzstan do not , however , because they were negotiated before the proposals were announced . 
the same single income family is paying 136 % more than a dual earner family . 
it keeps threading together isolated incidents of misuse of funds from reserves across the country . 
Mr. Paul Bonwick : 
several times in recent years , the safety of Ontario ' s nuclear facilities has been called into question . 
i could talk about the bill we have introduced to fight money laundering . 
i , for one , say , " Yes , there is a very important place for the family farm . " 
is there unanimous consent of the House ? 
while some members may dispute the official opposition ' s claim that the whole Nisga ' a agreement is a de facto constitutional amendment , no one , regardless of their position on this issue , can deny that it certainly raises questions relating to the Constitution of Canada . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
globalization is pushing Canada to grow and develop markets outside our borders . 
i note that another member introduced similar legislation about a year and a half ago which would ensure that the Canada Post Corporation would not deliver contest lotteries or prizes which would require individuals to pay before they collect the prize . 
Mr. Ted McWhinney : 
it is a very practical example of how this works . 
it is no accident when we look at jails , especially those south of the border , that they are full of people from poor sections of the United States , especially minority groups . 
until about 1947 , Canada ' s Governor General held office in the East Block of these buildings . 
we have also made a request with the United States to have the International Joint Commission study how water consumption removals and diversions could affect our Great Lakes . 
unfortunately , I have used up all the time available to me to talk about such an important issue as increased poverty . 
we had a vote here in December 1995 , and the members of the Conservative Party at the time did not even vote . 
how does such a proposition respect the spirit of the existing amending formula ? 
* * * 
food 
he said they don ' t release that information . 
hon. Michael A . Meighen : 
before an amputation takes place we must consult all parts affected , not just the part to be amputated . 
Mr. Speaker , I categorically reject everything in the hon. member ' s question . 
the Chair is satisfied that the bill is in the same form as Bill C - 260 was at the time of prorogation of the first session of the 36 th Parliament . 
Mr. Daniel Turp : 
Mr. Dennis J . Mills ( Broadview - Greenwood , Lib . ) : 
i say to the secretary of state and to the minister " Why not do both at the same time ? " 
these are Onex ' s memos , not the government ' s . 
i also appreciate the comments of the member from the Tory party , the member for Beaus é jour - Petitcodiac . 
the message seems clear to me . 
Mr. Ren é Canuel ( Matap é dia - Matane , BQ ) : 
it is time that the federal government sat down with provincial and municipal governments and worked out an integrated , seamless , transportation policy that includes all levels of government and the various modes of transportation . 
senator Boudreau : 
the first petition is signed by persons mostly from the Vernon and Armstrong areas of my riding of Okanagan - Shuswap . 
frankly , why is the government getting involved in this area ? 
Mr. Speaker , I would again agree with my hon. colleague . 
i believe many of my Liberal colleagues across the way , in particular those who sit on the defence committee , would agree with this point . 
( motions deemed adopted , bill read the first time and printed ) 
when the government changes the criteria to reasonable criteria then the full $ 1.5 billion can be distributed to the people who really need it , not one out of every two applications being denied . 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
the Speaker 
the CONSTITUTION 
senator Gill was very fair the other day when he said that other aboriginal groups will make good use of this - and why should they not ? 
on the other side of that coin , at a time when all governments are facing great financial pressures , it frees up an opportunity for the RCMP to concentrate on crimes that are perhaps more of an international nature , such as smuggling . 
if we do hear of cases where people may be at risk , we respond appropriately and as quickly as possible . 
hon. Senators : 
the matter went to appeal , where the court ruled just the opposite , rejecting Joe ' s admissions made before seeing his lawyer and allowing everything he said and did afterwards . 
one would think that a party which prides itself on being a natural governing party , having been around as long as it has been , knowing all the tricks of the trade and pulling them regularly , that it would be able to hack competition , that it would be all right with it , but it is not . 
there will even be some who will say , regrettably , that the new west should use its influence to separate from Canada . 
she defends the institution as if she had been given a very clear mandate to do so . 
division No. 393 
what is disgraceful is that the PQ government has driven almost one - quarter of the anglophone population out of the province . 
when I spoke to Nick he was having coffee with farmers at a Massey dealership in Watrous before heading for Yorkton , Saskatchewan . He described his trip as tears and fears , a very emotional journey . 
is there a pattern here of not being able to stand up to the oil and gas industry ? 
and the count having been taken : 
accordingly , pursuant to order made Thursday , October 14 , 1999 , the bill is deemed adopted at all stages and passed by the House . 
private MEMBERS ' BUSINESS 
whereas Parliament recognizes the role of the provinces in health care and that the Government of Canada collaborates with provincial governments to support the health care system and health research ; 
generally speaking , people are no longer dying of AIDS . 
the court simply said that this judgment cannot be extrapolated beyond the specific circumstances to which it applies . 
Mr. John Maloney ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada , Lib . ) : 
there is a very strong message that can be delivered . 
merchant NAVY VETERANS 
Mr. Speaker , the fisheries minister is of no comfort to lobster fishermen who are afraid of losing their livelihoods . 
senator Cogger : 
UKRAINE 
the purpose of the Senate is to represent the country ' s regions and particularly to protect minorities . 
we will ensure that the implementation of the action plan is part of the basic job requirement for all managers involved in grants and contributions . 
all I wanted to say is that everything was done in harmony . 
if something is not done about these conditions , Canada is going to lose its farmers and our food producing capacity . 
i would say that it is something as slim as the guillotine blade that beheaded the poet Andr é Ch é nier . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
we talk of this in terms of wisdom . 
report of Committee Requesting Authorization to Engage Services and Travel Presented 
the governing party used to say : " We want to keep the country together . 
motion No. 70 
the bill has two simple parts . 
some hon. members : 
hon. David M. Collenette 
in answer to your question , yes , I think some students are falling through the cracks and we could be doing more . 
instead of vesting the power in the people , the Liberal government is vesting it in itself . 
over the weekend Toronto ' s new chief of police had some advice for the minister and judges on what are the priority issues in Canada . 
this week , from March 20 to 25 , all francophone and Acadian communities from sea to sea will be celebrating the Semaine de la Francophonie . 
members 
the next question is on Motion No. 382 . 
that is how close these large trucks are travelling to the homes in that residential area . 
yeas 
motion No. 86 
when it says that it wants to cut taxes , we know by its actions that tax cutting is very low on its priority list . 
" force on November 1 , 2011 " 
Friday , November 19 , 1999 
given the fact that the federal government has made similar expenditures in the past , it is indeed a reasonable request . 
child Pornography 
all the legislation is doing is making a parallel . 
during my speech I raised the Nisga ' a treaty as an example . 
( the House divided on Motion No. 107 , which was agreed to on the following division : ) 
i am therefore speaking on their behalf . 
Mr. Jim Gouk ( Kootenay - Boundary - Okanagan , Ref. ) : 
indeed , it does not apply , apparently , to large parts of the health care sector , those being the " non - commercial " parts , including the professional relationships between patient and doctor and patient and hospital , and so on . 
i reject any attempt to try and muzzle people or try to intimidate us to try and paint this as some kind of human rights issue . 
you are right , Mr. Speaker , and I apologize . 
initially , this bill contained certain flaws , which have been corrected thanks to the amendments called for by the committee . 
intoxication as a defence for violent crime has been eliminated , and this year we have passed three key laws improving the rights of victims of violent crimes , promoting personal security of women and children and making the justice system more responsive to the needs of those who experience violence . 
regarding NISA , we made changes to NISA this summer that lowered the triggers . 
the main problem , but not the only one , arises from the fact the AIDA program , as designed today , is denying the benefits to a number of producers that it was originally intended to provide . 
senator Poy , your time is limited . 
CSIS itself has been conducting an internal security investigation and the Inspector General for CSIS , who reports to the Solicitor General , is also doing an investigation . 
railways Bill 
it goes on : 
when I consider this speech , I have to wonder if the government has really tried to uphold the principle of social equity . 
i am convinced my distinguished colleagues will be pleased with the proposed amendments which , I say it again , have to do with the wording and not the substance of the bill passed by the members of this House . 
the fact of the matter is that the committee is free to study all the other witnesses ' testimony . 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
the minister has even advocated exporting Canadian nuclear technology abroad . 
i take this opportunity to thank the members for Saint - Bruno - Saint - Hubert , Saint - Hyacinthe - Bagot , Hochelaga - Maisonneuve , L é vis - et - Chutes - de - la - Chaudi è re , Qu é bec and Drummond , and , for their support , the members for Roberval and Rimouski - Mitis , who , in the past few hours , have been negotiating with the other opposition parties to come up with a motion that would receive the unanimous approval of the House . 
there was substantial progress on the mechanisms whereby developed and developing countries can collaborate to achieve some of the Kyoto agreements . 
the difficulty I have is this delegation of authority . 
hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
the 20 th century was the bloodiest in human history , with millions of people suffering and losing their lives through war , regional conflicts and genocide . 
the question to my mind is an open question . 
this often creates false hopes , false expectations or even real expectations . 
members 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
on motion of Senator Hays , debate adjourned . 
Mr. Michel Gauthier : 
Mr. Louis Plamondon 
hon. Claudette Bradshaw 
honourable senators , the Main Estimates were reviewed yesterday in the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance . 
Mr. Speaker , I understand this question is a very emotional one for my colleague , and we all share this emotion . 
paired 
what is more , November 15 to 21 is national addiction awareness week , and the week of the 22 nd to the 29 th is national AIDS awareness week . 
members 
we have seen floods , frost , drought , hail and pestilence , but the greatest natural disaster has been the Liberal government opposite . 
we were told by political analysts that the minister ' s strength as a candidate was his supposedly unyielding support for reforming and ultimately renewing confederation . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
that Bill C - 6 be amended by deleting Clause 16 . 
( division 551 ) 
the auditor general will audit the books of the crown corporation , and there are ways to make crown corporations efficient and effective . 
taxpayers from coast to coast , whether they play hockey for a living in Ottawa or farm for a living back in my riding of St. Albert , deserve real tax breaks . 
we will have influence in terms of our marketing and sales and what we do around the world . 
they request that parliament oppose any effort to exclude references to the supremacy of God in our constitution and laws . 
that is what he said . 
Yugoslavia 
motion No. 335 negatived 
he is an accountant . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
under the heading of absolute majority , clear majority or clear - cut majority , is the following definition " more than half the votes or seats '' . 
in introducing the bill I hope to address the concern that the creation of a museum to recognize only one group of victims would severely diminish the significance of the millions of other lives that have been lost or ruined as victims of crimes against humanity . 
on October 26 in the House , I fully expressed my own views on the Nisga ' a treaty itself . 
they will be known in every aboriginal community . 
we would far prefer to devote all of our efforts to the substantial challenges of economic growth and jobs but we would be derelict in our duty to Canadians if we did not deal with this question . 
indeed , members of parliament do enjoy freedom of speech here , and the House can of course take action against one of its members if he or she says something that is not true or not acceptable under the standards of our institution . 
Canadians expect communities , where they live , work and raise their families , to be safe , secure and healthy . 
senator Roche : 
were they one line promises with little if any detail on how exactly these promises were to be implemented ? 
Mr. Joe McGuire 
madam Speaker , I rise on a point of order . 
division on Motion No. 79 deferred 
hon. Don Boudria 
the Nisga ' a have done an excellent job of negotiating on behalf of their people . 
all those in favour of the motion will please say yea . 
is he saying that they should be able to attend free of charge ? 
what we are trying to introduce in this legislation is a clause that would protect and help the Minister of Public Works and Government Services . 
RCMP 
we have seen that in the Nisga ' a issue . 
in order to vacate that seat and get the hon. member to sit here , the Prime Minister appointed the former member for Beauce ambassador to Port - au - Prince . 
Mr. Ghislain Lebel 
that Vote 10 a in the amount of $ 478,049 , under PRIVY COUNCIL - Canadian Centre for Management Development - Canadian Intergovernmental Conference Secretariat - Program expenditures , in the Supplementary Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal year ending March 31 , 2000 , be concurred in . 
increasingly , Canada will find that its economic interests have social , political and security implications . 
hon. John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) , pursuant to notice of November 2 , 1999 , moved : 
she had been my riding assistant in Brome - Missisquoi , providing me with wonderful support right from the first time I was elected in 1995 . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 25 , be amended by replacing lines 19 to 24 on page 9 with the following : 
hon. Arthur C . Eggleton 
volunteers by the hundreds are coming forward to help with every kind of fundraising event , and great progress is being made . 
the reasoning is pretty simple . 
members 
an hon. member : 
madam Speaker , I do not disagree with the member for Wentworth - Burlington with respect to what the technology and the space station program will create . 
will the Prime Minister undertake to keep his promises and move quickly to free up funds so that the industries and communities in the Jonqui è re region can improve the quality of the air we breathe ? 
agriculture 
i was wondering how many of the motions that have been voted on so far have been successful for the official opposition . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
some hon. members : 
there is another reason for shame . 
the government is committed to cutting taxes . 
overall I believe that the bill is worthy of further support and my colleagues in the Reform Party would want to give that support at least up to committee level . 
if they do not , I fear for the lobster stocks themselves . 
hon. Jane Stewart ( Minister of Human Resources Development , Lib . ) : 
the Acting Speaker ( Ms. Thibeault ) : 
Mr. Peter MacKay 
does the principle of rule 101 that speaks to the chairman of the committee signing the bill apply also to a bill that is reported without amendment ? 
the throne speech addresses the issues of the environment , health and agriculture in spite of some of the comments that were made in the House today . 
he uses as his example the motion passed in parliament in 1989 regarding the eradication of child poverty . 
words are not enough when it comes to protecting lives in this instance . 
there is a need for this type of accommodation . 
honourable senators , I listened with great interest to the comments made by Senator Beaudoin . 
i would like to think that we are good at it and we are getting better . 
the Liberal government follows the courts with legislation saying that the courts made the government do it . 
as chair of the Aboriginal Peoples Committee , I extend my appreciation to all members for their support . 
they are just as important and equally vital to society . 
it is encouraging to see that maternity claims have remained virtually unchanged and that the duration of these benefits has remained the same . 
i will sum it up in a few words by saying that democracy will probably be somewhat at risk if we are not careful about this . 
Mr. Richard M. Harris : 
immigration Act 
my fondest recollection of Senator Stewart is not from here but , rather , from my only visit to Antigonish , where I attended the MacEachen conference . 
i should also note , however , that there are other liability regimes on the horizon , notably those currently being developed in the International Maritime Organization , such as the proposed regime of liability for spills caused by ships ' bunkers and a new protocol to the Athens Convention on Compulsory Insurance . 
it is something on which the new Canadian communities have more to offer the older Canadian communities and to remind them of obligations that they have perhaps forgotten too easily , the older communities in the open society in which we live . 
Mr. Randy White : 
today , a couple of weeks before Christmas , there are people who are wondering if they will have enough money to get through the holiday season and to survive until their next job in the spring . 
canada Post Corporation is the applicant and various unions are the respondents . 
the full title of the bill is an act to give effect to the requirement for clarity as set out in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Canada in the Quebec secession reference . 
yeas 
it lacks the courage of its convictions and it abdicates its responsibilities in the face of the current crisis . 
madam Speaker , I will be splitting my time with my colleague from Kelowna . 
* * * 
members 
as to its exact involvement in the project of which the honourable senator speaks , I am not completely familiar , but I can make further inquiries . 
we are directing as much support as we possibly can to those farmers who are under financial stress . 
when it is time to renew their contract they are often told that there is a lot of competition and that they had better bring their numbers down or they will not likely get their contract . 
in my riding this year , we had the horrible murder of Jason Lang allegedly at the hands of a 14 year old boy . 
royal CANADIAN HORSE ARTILLERY 
as members know , a bill is made up of a title , sections , parts and schedules . 
senators Joyal and De Ban é know that , when Prime Minister Trudeau , thinking he had detected agreement among the provinces , even though Quebec was not a party , said that if he could get the support of the provinces and the members , he would not let the Senate prevent him from concluding an agreement . 
the next question is on Motion No. 22 . 
nays 
Mr. Michel Gauthier ( Roberval , BQ ) : 
( division 70 ) 
by " against the clock " I mean that if we think this work is important , we will have to ask the members of the committee for extra work days . 
Mr. Garry Breitkreuz : 
in 1993 , 13 million Canadians were working . 
this capacity , joined with the historic right to have grievances settled by the Crown before approving money in support of the Crown ' s activities , vests in the legislature not only the formal responsibility for approving statutes but also a continuing critical overseeing of executive actions . 
the Speaker : 
yours truly , 
who has access to this treatment ? 
members 
honourable senators , I have no objection to the suggestion of my honourable friend . 
Mr. Charlie Penson 
based on the replies I received , believe it or not , it appears that approximately one - half have some experience with scouting and guiding . 
senator Ghitter has put the issue on the floor . 
this is another process that needs change . 
it is a clear indication of the government ' s profound commitment to research and to knowledge . 
Mr. Jason Kenney : 
( division 459 ) 
later the same day , the Senate adopted that report . 
in Qu é bec , the Bloc Quebecois had 500,000 votes fewer than last time . 
why do we think that a person who has seasonal job can ? 
in too many provinces , like my home province of Nova Scotia , the child tax benefit is clawed back when families ' main source of income is social assistance , a perverse attempt at addressing poverty which has ensured that the needs of children in poor families have not been addressed . 
i have actually been listening to his rhetoric for the last six years and not much has changed . 
motion agreed to . 
the Speaker : 
not many people understand that in the northeast corner of British Columbia , an area that I represent , there is an agricultural sector that is very similar to the three prairie provinces of Alberta , Saskatchewan and Manitoba . 
hon. Maria Minna ( Minister for International Cooperation , Lib . ) : 
with this change in the paradigm , one can fully understand the frustration that members of the other place , and from time to time members in this house , manifest in having no say in the development of policy , but are simply given marching orders to push through a government initiative , sometimes with no reflection on it whatsoever . 
Mr. Speaker , since the beginning of this case , the Minister of Canadian Heritage has been accusing us of inventing problems and starting rumors , as did Mr. Macerola from Telefilm Canada , who said , somewhat prematurely , that the whole issue was an urban legend . 
the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development himself has bragged about the fact that this will just be a template , if you will , because there are a whole lot more to come . 
it is still not working as it should , and crime has not been reduced because of this so - called piece of crime reduction legislation . 
she must know what is going on in her department . 
we hear other members who are from that region speak of those arrangements . 
that having been said , if , as the federalists argue , Quebec were divisible , the very great majority of Quebec ' s territory would already have been sovereign since 1995 . 
we can clearly understand the difficulty that is created when there are horses travelling on back trails , as well as motor bikes tearing up the trails . 
through the aboriginal fishing strategy the Government of Canada and DFO were buying licenses from retiring fishermen and turning them over to the aboriginal community so it could have a livelihood on the water as the supreme court said is its right . 
i would say that consolidation came as a result of cutbacks in the budget . 
some 30 months later , not one centre has been established . 
immigration 
Mr. Philip Mayfield 
notice of Inquiry 
it states : 
i ask for unanimous consent immediately - and the member can laugh his heart out and I will make sure he has a real good laugh - because I ask for unanimous consent , if anyone has the courage , that we make this bill votable . 
he is not the premier of Ontario but rather the journalist who wrote the book . 
that , honourable senators , is the background behind the bill . 
it should have provided , however , that the provinces are responsible for managing the health services within their borders and that their agreement is necessary in the event of encroachment on their jurisdiction . 
unlike Reform , we believe that the role of government is to be there when Canadians need help . 
i think we all know a lot better than that . 
honourable senators , I could speak at much greater length about post - secondary education issues and lifelong learning as these are close to my heart . 
that Bill C - 2 be amended by deleting Clause 396 . 
in this case , the Auditor General has given his view with respect to a number of selected contracts . 
it is clear that we are on the edge of the necessity of examining a fundamental restructuring of the airline industry to meet the new realities of international air transportation and the cutthroat competition that exists for much larger companies outside with much heavier government investment and support . 
i would ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate to take a certain sense of urgency in communicating these concerns because the vote at the United Nations will be held the first part of next week . 
at this point , I must insist that all hon. members respect the rules and stop playing cards . 
4 . The then Acting Chief of Staff of the Minister of National Defence in relation to the Somalia occurrence ; 
concurrence in Vote No. 25 a - Finance 
some hon. members : 
( official Version ) 
Mr. Speaker , yesterday , the minister said in this House that the unemployment rate used for the transitional jobs fund was the 1995 rate and that the rate for the Canada jobs fund was the 1997 rate . 
what did they end up doing ? 
in questions such as who are recognized as Nisga ' a and some similar matters , the laws to be made by the Nisga ' a will prevail , but only if they are consistent with the Charter of Rights , which is the paramount law . 
it is the one I have firsthand knowledge of because I was there . 
the minister hand picks the members and appoints the chair as well . 
the right to privacy , as it has been interpreted under the Charter , protects people and not places . 
his work has generated various programs in early childhood development throughout Canada . 
i therefore ask for unanimous consent to table this document that will enlighten the House of Commons . 
i ask for unanimous consent to revert to introduction of private members ' bills to allow him to present his private member ' s bill . 
especially concerning her predecessor . 
we never asked ourselves that question . 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron 
* * * 
at the present time , there are between 5,000 and 10,000 jobs at stake , in Quebec in particular . 
we will move on . 
that is , in my view , a great honour for members of the Bloc Quebecois . 
the hon. member for Perth - Middlesex . 
the Gisborne Lake project in Newfoundland has received tentative forms of approval . 
on behalf of the Bloc Quebecois , I would like to congratulate Ms. Blais on being awarded this prize , which , no doubt , will make her immense talent and the literature of Quebec known to an even wider audience . 
this issue does not fall under its jurisdiction . 
i was also moved by the sadness which was permeating his remarks about how our democratic institutions are being trampled by a will coming from God knows where in Canada . 
committees OF THE HOUSE 
they call this a bill on clarity . 
these are the facts . 
this government not only refuses to act , but also hits these minorities where they are most vulnerable . 
even in those dark years the foundations for this Speech from the Throne and for what I hope will appear in the budget were already being laid . 
if we are going to restore the public ' s confidence , swift action must be taken . 
user FEE ACT 
members 
the hon. member knows that it is out of order to indicate support or opposition to a petition being presented in the House . 
this amendment will also put Canada in compliance with the recently negotiated Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child . 
using Senator Kinsella ' s assumption of two hours a day for 14 days , this proposal would allow 112 senators to speak . 
the people spoke very clearly on the relationship of aboriginals to the rest of the country . 
does she think that is necessary to defend our cultural sovereignty ? 
i will probably obtain that answer over the recess and I should be able to respond when we resume . 
nays 
there is not a person in this House who wants to see the aboriginal people continue living under the conditions that they have been living . 
statements BY MEMBERS 
although its property is exempt from taxation under the constitution , the Government of Canada , through this bill , accepts the responsibility to pay a portion of the cost of local government in communities where it owns property . 
we could talk about the cost of these treaties . 
i will get back to the member as soon as possible , but we will continue with the business before us at this point . 
one hundred years ago there were all kinds of predictions that would - 
Mr. Derek Lee 
i am certain that all members of the House understand the significant contribution local private radio and television broadcasters have made through community participation and charitable efforts . 
OKTOBERFEST WOMEN OF THE YEAR AWARDS 
senator Robichaud will move , at the first opportunity , presumably tomorrow , a motion that the subject matter of those Main Estimates be referred to the Fisheries Committee as they apply to the Department of Fisheries . 
we were following this debate and the issue very closely . 
senator Wilson said her " religious partners " - by that I gather she means the established churches - view the Falun Gong as a destabilizing and harmful , foreign - influence organization . 
Mr. Ted White 
4.7 
i am suggesting that eligibility for the program would have to be determined based on certain established guidelines . 
the Reform Party has never held that aboriginal people are not able to care for themselves . 
i declare Motion No. 313 defeated . 
he or she may accept the recommendations , amend them , reject them or simply ignore them . 
Mr. Speaker , I would like to thank the hon. member from the Reform Party for his comments and his question . 
i will ask a simple , reasonable question . 
bill C - 4 is formalizing our commitment to the space station , something that every Canadian should be proud of . 
motion No. 359 
over 15 per cent of the new City of Ottawa will be francophone . 
the bill requires the federal government to compensate farmers where they have losses to crops due to harm done by such rodents as gophers because the poison which they normally use to control these pests has been removed for reasons such as environmental protection and so on . 
i will go to the next one . 
members 
CMHC is working with all of the different local organizations to try to resolve the situation and will continue to do so . 
concurrence IN VOTE 50 A - JUSTICE 
Mr. Ted White ( North Vancouver , Ref. ) : 
its mandate is to manage , plan and implement programs that generate and promote tourism in Canada . 
as for the clarity of the referendum question , if you conduct a poll in the rest of Canada , you will see that the overwhelming majority of Canadians believe that , with this bill , the next referendum will necessarily be on secession . 
why do we have a balanced budget today ? 
hon. Brenda M. Robertson : 
for us it is a matter of one person , one vote . 
members 
these individuals and this highly criminal group have managed to beat the most clever strategies and to infiltrate all spheres of society . 
improving Canada ' s knowledge infrastructure means supporting a new generation of leaders , attracting the best researchers , and encouraging our graduates to put their talents to work here at home . 
i compliment the Atlantic Liberal caucus on that report , but we must do something about it . 
as parliamentarians , we must exhort and encourage all levels of government to be ever mindful of those great Canadian values that set us apart , for while there continue to exist disadvantaged individuals in our society , while there are underprivileged children in our society , while there is a lack of sound health care for the sick and elderly in our society , and while there are shortcomings and , indeed , failures in our educational systems to deliver equal educational opportunities to all Canadians , then , as members of that society , we are all diminished . 
it was before us in the last session and it is again before us . 
the program has two objectives : to encourage employers to hire a student and to help students launch their own projects . 
they will not get that through this agreement and they should have that . 
in this age of globalization , the deluge of information made possible by the Internet is the greatest equalizer of all . 
will he commit himself and his government to federal highway infrastructure projects to rebuild and repair these potentially lethal sections of Highway 101 ? 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
by 2004 , our goal is to be the most electronically connected government in the world to its citizens , so that Canadians can access all government information and services on - line at the time and place of their choosing . 
is that agreeable to the House ? 
i believe so , and I am sure you respected him at the time . 
hon. John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) : 
his priorities were always clear in his writing , in his speeches and in the issues that he chose to pursue locally , nationally and internationally . 
" ( c ) subject to paragraph ( c .1 ) , the name and address of each contributor " 
we have to look at the social policies that have been decided on by the Liberal government . 
surely we can agree on the basic moral agenda that is being outlined . 
we think this is a very important point that has to be taken into consideration . 
we very seldom have a 100 % turnout at an election . 
motion No. 21 negatived 
i will have to pay particular attention to make sure that my right ear is more attuned . 
this means that Canadian products will have better access to markets in China . 
ninety per cent of all the e - commerce traffic in this country is in trade with the U.S. Therefore I cannot see the need to rush to beat the Americans in this regard because down the road they could adopt a different standard and we would have to change . 
this parliament should have and needs a clear and objective complaint and resolution mechanism available to the public . 
rural Canada is home to about one in three Canadians . 
Mr. Speaker , I have said all I wanted to say . 
honourable senators , I wonder if I might speak now . 
the Speaker : 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
if that was in place these problems would probably have been prevented because the government ' s weaknesses , the corruption and mismanagement of those funds , would have surfaced . 
Mr. John Cummins ( Delta - South Richmond , Ref. ) : 
order , please . 
if passed , this bill will eliminate from the calculation of benefits the many rules that decrease the amount to which claimants are entitled . 
yet what may not end is Canadian taxpayers losing out on the deal . 
the Conservative Party is right . 
jobs are a concern , not only for Air Canada employees , but for Canadian employees . 
some Quebecers who are half - heartedly in favour of sovereignty would no doubt prefer the Canadian option . 
can the Prime Minister not understand that his real role is to do precisely what he just did : make suggestions , and leave the questions up to the National Assembly of Quebec and Quebecers ? 
i am not saying that the system cannot be improved . 
these allegations are part of what led to the start - up of the investigation called sidewinder . 
canada will continue to play a major role in doing that . 
during the summer they tried peaceful demonstrations to bring attention to their plight . 
he spoke about the Reform Party being like General Custer . 
why has he not resigned ? 
this is a needs - based program . 
i congratulate Senator Carstairs and wish the committee that will study this issue successful deliberations . 
as for the income share of the richest 20 % and the poorest 20 % , it has grown from 30 to 1 in 1960 , to 78 to 1 in 1994 . 
( 2 ) A competition held under subsection ( 1 ) shall be open to all qualified electors other than persons referred to in subsection 22 ( 3 ) . 
they are the only group of workers in the country who are specifically barred from organizing a union . 
i believe that if marijuana consumption were decriminalized , we might see less crime related to its sale and purchase . 
it is time it showed a bit more leadership and resolved certain native problems for once and for all . 
Ms. Val Meredith 
36 th Parliament , 2 nd Session 
does the hon. member have the agreement of the House ? 
that is very laudable . 
aboriginal AFFAIRS 
the reason this is so significant is because it takes the human spirit that is represented in our political institutions , and more than that in our legal institutions , and for the first time ever it has taken the law out of this world . 
that the House , pursuant to Standing Order 119 ( 1 ) , authorize the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development to televise its meetings on Wednesday , November 24 in the afternoon and Thursday , November 25 in the morning , during its study on Bill C - 9 , an act to give effect to the Nisga ' a final agreement in accordance with the guidelines pertaining to televising committee proceedings . 
Mr. Keith Martin ( Esquimalt - Juan de Fuca , Ref. ) : 
motion No. 341 
his wife chooses to stay home and look after the children because they think they can do a better job of raising their children than the state . 
it is evidenced by the fact that this gentleman is not confident that the Canada pension plan will sustain itself . 
Mrs. Monique Guay 
an hon. member : 
the media ' s role is to report the news in a fair manner . 
with these changes , the Minister of Foreign Affairs will have the power to ban the bulk removal of water from boundary water basins . 
was there a deliberate attempt to put into place a program that would not work ? 
the reality is that the Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food in this House announced $ 900 million for the farm community . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
senator Mahovlich , your speaking time has expired . 
a negative vote on Motion No. 65 requires the question to be put on Motion No. 66 . 
bill C - 9 - TIME ALLOCATION MOTION 
they were first made just prior to a Hearing to enforce an order for overnight access , and , as a consequence , overnight access was denied Mr. Kobylanski . 
do you know what $ 17 billion represent ? 
yeas 
in the 1995 referendum Quebecers could just as well have been asked if they liked apple pie . 
i think the Speaker needs to give us some guidance and I would suggest allow the procedure and House affairs committee to give guidance to the House in general . 
yeas 
honourable senators , I should like to thank you for your indulgence . 
that is something for which we as Canadians should never be proud . 
there is not enough leadership on this issue . 
only the effect on adult males is considered . 
the Government will work with Canadians to ensure that our communities continue to be safe . 
the Bloc Quebecois will support that motion . 
" 27 . 
the Government of Canada has also delivered on a commitment by the minister to provide farmers with interim AIDA payments - in other words , giving farmers faster access to the money they need , rather than having them wait until all of their calculations are done at the end of the 1999 claim year . 
this simple phrase speaks volumes about Canada ' s ethnic makeup and the bounty all Canadians reap from it . 
the fire has gone out of this test burn scheme and it is time the Prime Minister worked up the moxy to cancel the MOx plan . 
Mr. Guy St - Julien ( Abitibi - Baie - James - Nunavik ) , Lib . ) : 
Mr. Steve Mahoney ( Mississauga West , Lib . ) moved for leave to introduce Bill C - 280 , an act to amend the Copyright Act . 
it means that section 7 affords no guarantee of compensation or a fair procedure for the taking of property by the government . 
i would like to quote what some people said , because I think it is important for the House to understand that the bill before us is going in the wrong direction . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
an apology should be made to the two premiers for doing this to them . 
it indicates that : 
we are issuing needles . 
* * * 
this is the theme raised a while ago and one the Bloc leader has just renounced . 
Russia had a tremendous difference in philosophy from that of the United States and Canada . 
the people understood perfectly well . 
the audit never at any point suggested that there was $ 1 billion missing . 
Mr. Speaker , one shows respect for taxpayers by meeting with them and answering their questions . 
provision of foreign aid conditional on human rights record 
i am reintroducing it in this session of parliament . 
i understand that this bill originally resulted from a panel of the public works department in 1992 , which was an effort to review payments in lieu of taxes . 
the eighth paragraph of the preamble of the bill states , in part : 
we can see that , when this government says , for instance , that it wants to work with the provinces to improve the quality of life of Canadians , in practice that is not what interests it . 
beauty and excellence are not the property of a select group . 
hon. Lucienne Robillard ( President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for Infrastructure , Lib . ) : 
in the spring of 1999 , there were 2,542 ships on order throughout the world . 
honourable senators , I do not see it as my role to defend the national air carrier . 
when the minister introduced the bill on Friday she kept repeating terms like tolerance , inclusion and acceptance . 
there is Cominco , the mining company . 
Mr. Speaker , December 1 marked the first anniversary of the beginning of the implementation of the new firearms legislation . 
i bid them all welcome on behalf of the Senate of Canada . 
motion No. 1 
* * * 
members 
i declare Motion No. 269 lost . 
millions of tourists from all over the world are attracted to British Columbia because of its natural beauty . 
i would ask all members to be very judicious in the choice of words that they are throwing back and forth . 
honourable senators , we on this side are ready to conclude debate at this stage on this matter . 
in this debate we should have more facts and a little more truth so that people can understand what this debate is all about . 
division No. 211 
if they are not able to resolve the matter , then there are provisions for the Government of Canada to resolve it through arbitration . 
these programs are disastrous in and among themselves . 
the Supreme Court sets out those two points clearly . 
the next question is on Motion No. 171 . 
in total about 90 million people have died in this century from crimes against humanity . 
is that agreed , honourable senators ? 
questions ON THE ORDER PAPER 
i am saying that I want the people of Canada to be heard in this budget process . 
Josephine Grey , Director of Low Income Families Together , tells us that the , 
they asked her to come in and she told her parents there was no way she was coming into that place , that she did not have to come in . 
Mr. Speaker , it is a pleasure to rise again on behalf of the PC Party and my constituents of Tobique - Mactaquac . 
members 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
firearms CONTROL 
as a private landowner and as a farmer I have been in numerous land disputes . 
i wonder if with CPP , Revenue Canada , life insurance , accident insurance and spousal benefits it is not absolutely imperative that these these relationships will have to be registered relationships . 
they consider it a criticism of us that we want to treat everyone equally . 
Mr. Peter Adams 
essentially the public has been excluded by both senior governments . 
paired 
Mr. Grant McNally 
approximately 4.5 billion vehicle kilometres of this travel occur on the national highway system . 
i was glad when the minister told us today - and it was duly noted - that he thinks this provision does not deal with the partition of Quebec , but that it could include changes to borders , like what was done in Lithuania and Czechoslovakia , according to the example the minister gave us yesterday . 
honourable senators , I should like to ask a supplementary to that question . 
the issue at hand concerns an established tradition . 
there is no possible way that I could ever explain any of the details in the bill to that individual . 
hon. Robert D . Nault 
effectively , the committee - and I concur - stated that economics does not come first and human rights second , that they go hand in hand . 
Mr. Speaker , what are you thankful for ? 
i believe the major flaw in the whole process was that the government did not see fit to ask the Standing Committee on Transport to meet as early as possible after the gates were opened . 
Mr. Chuck Cadman 
in addition , a fifth presumptive category for repeat violent offenders would be created . 
Mr. Speaker , it gives me much pleasure to rise in the House today to pay tribute to Charmaine Crooks , holder of 11 Canadian track records and medalist in the Commonwealth and Pan Am Games . 
shame . 
order IN COUNCIL APPOINTMENTS 
it has denied the people of B.C. a vote . 
i know he is concerned about these issues within his own community . 
the hon. member for Brampton Centre . 
i personally favour the insertion in the criminal code of a section that recognizes vehicular homicide . 
here coincidentally , Air Canada ' s head office is in Montreal , Quebec and Air Canada does not want to see any change to the 10 % rule . 
Mr. Speaker , seconded by my colleague , the member for Laurentides , Monique Guay , I am introducing a bill that would prohibit employers from hiring persons to replace employees on strike or locked out where such employers come under the Canada Labour Code or in the case of employees on strike in the federal public service . 
some hon. members : 
we did that . 
now that the government has pulled the plug we have a painful and awkward situation for which there is no easy solution . 
bill C - 20 
Mr. St é phane Bergeron 
i trust the member for Beauport - Montmorency - C ô te - de - Beaupr é - Î le - d ' Orl é ans will revert to the topic of the report very shortly . 
why did the federal government put a 10 cent tax on gasoline ? 
members 
they were not before we formed the government and we insisted on having them there . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Jim Abbott ( Kootenay - Columbia , Ref. ) : 
it is a scandal . 
we have been promised a new one by successive governments over the past few decades . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien ( Prime Minister , Lib . ) : 
why is the minister gambling with the future of Canada ' s lumber industry ? 
we will catch you on the next time around . 
( i ) that is occupied for residential purposes by an employee of Her Majesty in right of Canada who would not , but for that employment , live on that reserve ... , 
senators ' STATEMENTS 
Mr. Yvon Charbonneau ( Anjou - Rivi è re - des - Prairies , Lib . ) : 
it has brought forward these issues and has supported the idea at the WTO that there be a working group on labour so that we can talk about these issues and make them a priority in the WTO . 
Mr. Ted White : 
he expresses keen interest in the project and I know he wants it to go ahead . 
we have a lot to offer the world . 
Mr. Raymond Bonin 
in the years that I have been in this house , I have seldom , if ever , heard an immediate appeal to resolve a serious political problem or social policy problem by resorting to the notwithstanding clause of the Charter . 
* * * 
honourable senators , in closing , I will table some letters from children in our area so that you can read their concerns . 
these people will lead industry in their areas . 
motion No. 19 
i would ask for agreement that the record show that this motion passed unanimously . 
the Liberal member to whom I spoke looked at me , shrugged his shoulders and said " We really don ' t have a choice '' . 
the political authorities assess the importance of such a consultation on the basis of , among other things , the clarity of the question and the clarity of the result . 
division No. 142 
Quebec residents , no longer accepting of minority status in Canada , would become a majority in Quebec . 
i am sure we all appreciate the budget announcement of $ 900 million over five years to the federal granting councils to establish and sustain Canada research chairs . 
Yes. 
we have to find some solutions immediately . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
let me turn then to the one thing that we gained from the committee . 
the finance minister knows perfectly well that if he did not increase spending , as he plans to do , we would see surpluses of about $ 25 billion a year within five years . 
major challenges remain to ensure that progress continues in the reduction of the major risk factors : smoking , high blood pressure , elevated blood cholesterol and diabetes . 
far from guaranteeing loans to Canadians who purchase Canadian built ships , we should drop the 25 % tariff we have on non - NAFTA ship imports so that all Canadian shipowners are not penalized . 
families in Canada are actually aware of the Liberal government ' s agenda . 
i will quote from the closing of his speech which should give Canadians the confidence that the next budget will reflect a step in the right direction of addressing the fact that Canadians have taken a great deal of the burden over all the years we have taken to balance the budget and finally get into a surplus position . 
withdraw the Nisga ' a legislation so that the aboriginal people can take a step forward into the next century instead of passing into law the mistakes of the last 200 years . 
we could get kind of carried away here . 
however , after listening to the debate , I noted a few things and thought , for greater clarification , I could contribute to the debate . 
that a Special Committee of the Senate be appointed to examine and report on two significant matters which involve the conduct of chain of command of the Canadian Forces , both in - theatre and at National Defence Headquarters and its response to operational , decision making and administrative problems encountered during the Somalia deployment to the extent that these matters have not been examined by the Commission of Inquiry into the Deployment of Canadian Forces to Somalia and allegations that Canadian soldiers were exposed to toxic substances in Croatia between 1993 and 1995 , and the alleged destruction of medical records of personnel serving in Croatia . 
there are things that will lead to discoveries , other research , other discoveries in the medical field , and that is important . 
i do not believe he called any hon. member a demagogue . 
Mr. Speaker , I am very pleased that Canadian culture figures so prominently in the Speech from the Throne . 
Mr. Speaker , I thank my hon. colleague opposite for his questions . 
there are glaring points in the bill , issues such as the courts already striking down sections of the bill . 
all the Liberals have to do is mind their own business . 
i too would like to enter the debate on Bill C - 23 to speak out on behalf of a minority group in the country , that group being Christians . 
Ms. Judy Wasylycia - Leis ( Winnipeg North Centre , NDP ) : 
it should be lowering taxes . 
the Minister of Justice is not going to be the one to carry this burden . 
i will conclude my comments on those five items and look forward to the continuing debate here today . 
after the national assembly has adopted a question that it considered clear , and after Quebecers have had a clear debate on a clear issue , the House of Commons could determine , under clause 2 , whether the majority in a positive referendum on sovereignty , according to particular criteria , is acceptable or not for the majority in the rest of Canada . 
when debate concluded before question period , the hon. member for Perth - Middlesex had five minutes remaining in his dissertation followed by questions and comments . 
motion No. 18 negatived 
recent court decisions have indicated that our statutes must be updated and this will end the need for constant litigation such as that presently brought by the Foundation for Equal Families . 
child Poverty 
i hope to hear some good news for Canadian farmers very soon . 
i would urge them to drop a few more things off their very full plate to allow for some tax relief and tax breaks for Canadian businesses and families . 
( 1 ) In each province , the legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to 
this is one of Senator Doody ' s favourite subjects , and he pressed it , I thought very effectively , as did a number of other colleagues during our committee hearings . 
i became aware of the importance of international trade in April 1998 , when I took part in a meeting of the Cairns Group , which gave me a bit of an idea of where Canada stood . 
honourable senators , I understand and I am sensitive to the great difficulties involved in scripting a statutory provision that would accomplish this purpose , while yet not lending itself to abuse . 
the future looks very , very bright as far as the infrastructure of our communities is concerned . 
what Reformers fail to appreciate is that these programs are focused on people . 
we may find that we cannot complete some of these studies for lack of funds or lack of foresight . 
however , I add that all false accusations in civil justice are pernicious , even if the impugned cannot financially or emotionally sustain the adjudication , and the issue is compelling senators ' investigation . 
resuming debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , for an Address to Her Excellency the Governor General in reply to her Speech from the Throne at the Opening of the Second Session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . - ( 
Ms. H é l è ne Alarie 
the report was commented on by many witnesses before the finance committee . 
senator Andreychuk : 
it is simply the tabling of the report and I hope the hon. member will get to that . 
Mr. Garry Breitkreuz : 
youth CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT 
the Liberal government ' s main concern seems to be its messaging . 
the privacy commissioner determined that it would be virtually impossible to determine the actual culprit or culprits in the violation of Mr. Starlight ' s privacy , short of getting honest and truthful statements from people who were involved , which I gather were not forthcoming . 
however , I find it immoral that they also sit in the Senate and use their privileges as senators to lobby officials in various departments . 
that is another myth of this treaty . 
just moments before I heard the hon. member for Elk Island speak . 
the 1995 question was " Do you agree that Quebec should become sovereign ? " 
too many people are kept from being full - fledged citizens . 
i am therefore happy to note that the member for Saint John has the same problems in her region . 
finally , climate of business in the private sector seems even better , since the number of employees increased by 42,000 in business in November . 
however , legislation like provincial apportionment statutes has never been enacted by Parliament , except a few provisions which cover the relatively narrow topic of damage caused by collisions between ships . 
we also have increasing requirements for more resources to buy equipment and to carry out health research . 
once that becomes a reality in their minds , then I think we can deal with all those other things very quickly . 
we are determined that our constitutionally guaranteed rights should be a daily fact of life for every woman and man in Canada . 
hon. Claudette Bradshaw 
this is the negotiated settlement in the DFO arrangement . 
our system has relied too heavily on custody as a response to the vast majority of non - violent youth offences and we have reaped the negative reward of repeat offenders . 
does the Minister of Transport really believe that this arrangement complies with the National Transportation Act , which provides that foreign interests cannot in effect control more than 25 % of an air carrier ? 
it seems the Liberals have a problem with the institution of marriage . 
it covers two different themes , two different principles . 
god knows the opposition has not been consulted at all on this issue . 
* * * 
conservation is going to be a priority for the government . 
when it comes to health care , we have a choice : to move forward or to go back to the two tier Americanized , privatized health care that Canadians reject . 
equity is what we seek to achieve in the House , but it seems to me that the real equity we are seeking to achieve at this time when we are discussing taxes is equity in terms of a broad based tax relief . 
a referendum would be just plain unfair to the Nisga ' a people . 
Mr. Bob Kilger 
the changes are about fairness , tolerance and non - discrimination . 
presumably a registry would be open to the public in the same way registries are for births and deaths . 
the member is imputing motives . 
members 
premier Harris is often accused of being a conservative person , somebody with whom we would see eye to eye on many principles as a provincial Conservative in Ontario . 
i would be surprised . 
those three locations , Stephenville , Newfoundland and Charlo and Chatham , New Brunswick , are being serviced by Air Nova in Bathurst . 
you can easily imagine what Canadians think of seasonal workers now . 
go away and do it '' . 
that Bill C - 9 , in Clause 27 , be amended by replacing lines 7 and 8 on page 10 with the following : 
they hate that term . 
the people of British Columbia have a legitimate reason to have these concerns . 
eighty - nine per cent of the people in British Columbia believe that they did not have an adequate opportunity to provide input into the Nisga ' a treaty . 
today the House has an opportunity to fulfil that duty and with it to achieve one of the most important tasks for which we are elected : the implementation of laws which guarantee that all our citizens may live in equality and dignity . 
is it then in order to withdraw the order ? 
let us now allow them to be equal in achieving the benefits that we all have . 
" force on September 1 , 2008 . " 
the people in Prince George are concerned too . 
debates would no longer be meaningless , sequential soliloquies because members would actually be free to change their mind or their positions as a result of something that some other member had said . 
in the Income Tax Act it is called a tax expenditure . 
i can name farmers who have received some money , but they are the wrong people . 
is the minister being kept in the dark by her officials , or is she simply refusing to assume her responsibilities ? 
we have to deal with people who were abused as children , who have fetal alcohol effects , who have learning disabilities that were not recognized and then ran into trouble in the school system , dropped out , got into trouble with drugs and then later into trouble with the justice system . 
the information can be checked off . 
many police officers and citizens right across Ontario , are frustrated with the Young Offenders Act because it seems primarily concerned with the rights of offenders ... It ' s 
let us call this arrangement example A . 
it will provide certainty . 
honourable senators , may I say that , absolutely , that will be an issue that we will look at in some detail . 
this concerns us very much . 
he said that the Senate has traditionally exercised a supervisory role over constitutional negotiations by the executive . 
the chief electoral officer and the Canada Elections Act should be removed from partisan politics , as well as the whole appointment process and who the returning officers are . 
i had lunch with them and talked with them . 
it was routinely shot down by the premiers . 
Mr. Ted White ( North Vancouver , Ref. ) : 
that is the approach of the government , to run scared , to do nothing and utter attacks against those who offer positive proactive solutions for change . 
motion No. 135 
i listened to the leader ' s speeches . 
it is no surprise to me that the committee would not allow this motion to be votable because it is so fundamentally flawed at almost every level . 
ultimately , I think most Canadians would agree that a dollar left in the hands of the taxpayer will be a lot better utilized than a dollar left in the hands of a politician or a bureaucrat . 
the Speaker : 
the first set of petitions I am pleased to present totals 11 pages with the signatures of 158 concerned Canadians from the provinces of Ontario , Alberta and B.C. For those who are keeping track , that is a total of 15,415 signatures of people who are demanding better protection of property rights in federal law . 
let us look at using our embassies as a tool for selling Canada much more than what they do today . 
finally , to the extent that I am the member of this house who raised the question of privilege and to the extent that the committee would want my participation , I would find it very difficult to appear before the committee in camera . 
sometimes , when people were voting in the Gaspe , the election had already been held in other areas and we knew who would form the government . 
we do not know how much the Senate costs because , unfortunately , this kind of information is not disclosed . 
it was saying " Enough of this kind of stuff , enough of these fiascos '' , which are now very apparent . 
we will correct that in the next ballot . 
i am wondering if the sole purpose of his speech is not to please his minister , who joined in the debate a moment ago , to get a promotion or to dissociate himself from the dissidents who expressed dissatisfaction in yesterday ' s caucus meeting . 
the same criticism comes back the next year . 
Mr. Derek Lee : 
that has been a very beneficial exchange and I have a great deal of respect for this member of the Reform Party who , like several other colleagues of his , is more open - minded . 
we are witnessing the implementation of a new way of managing public assets and funds . 
motion No. 360 negatived 
frankly , honourable senators , I have never seen a bill where both business and consumer groups were equally anxious to see a piece of legislation passed . 
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the deputy whip of the government party for her ingenuity in resolving the issue of the wet chair . 
that the House consider the business of supply at its next sitting . 
we can undo the damage that successive waves of government cutbacks have inflicted on families , on public services and on living standards in the 1990 s . 
let me make it very clear to the hon. member . 
divorce ACT 
senator Stewart lives by the saying , " Do unto others as you would have them do unto you . " 
as the motion has not been designated as a votable item , the order is dropped from the order paper . 
is there leave to continue , honourable senators ? 
we are constantly on trial as we sit in this place , something which we must never forget . 
this morning , I spoke to Luc Desnoyers , Quebec ' s delegate to the CAW . 
the Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2 p.m. 
he said that of the 1,083 projects approved , 568 , or over half , went to opposition - held ridings . 
for seven years he has been cutting health care and acting like he is not . 
honourable senators , I believe that the Parliament of Canada must give careful consideration to the recommendations of this important report by Senator Simard , in the context of the new realities faced by francophone and Acadian communities in Canada . 
canada allows 23,000 to 25,000 refugees into the country every year . 
it is very obvious what it means . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
the Hon. the Speaker : 
the European countries with their differences and their civil law will do as Quebec has done , use a definition of a positive right for citizens . 
the difficulty in reaching agreement does not stem from the bill but from the complexity inherent in any secession process . 
the suit for $ 15 billion is being launched now as we sit here in the House of Commons . 
t ' was a sign of the times to come 
motion No. 14 
canada SHIPPING ACT 
we can congratulate the government on the new title . 
since 1993 it has voted against every major aboriginal initiative in the House and as usual it is carrying on as it always has . 
and more than five members having risen : 
i will pause and remark that I am blessed with a son who is 16 years old right now . 
senator Corbin , for instance , mentioned last week that when he was in the House of Commons - and , I am sure Senator Prud ' homme remembered that - Madam Sauv é and Speaker Lamoureux would attend every Royal Assent ceremony . 
in a century of growing gaps between the haves and have nots Canada developed an advanced system of social security and a social safety net . 
hon. Don Boudria : 
the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs is , as my colleague for Mercier has said , in the process of addressing the Kosovo situation . 
on May 14 , 1999 , this bill got the support of all the political parties in this House , it was deemed to have been read a third time and passed . 
they both advanced the idea of a " community of interest governance model " for urban settings . 
Mr. Michel Gauthier ( Roberval , BQ ) : 
after all , they come from all points on the globe , and who better to help us compete internationally ? 
incidentally - and this will be of interest to my friend , the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs - this past weekend I attended a congress with the rank and file in my riding of Hochelaga - Maisonneuve . 
criminal CODE 
lives are saved and treatments are improved while researchers are working to find a permanent cure . 
everybody came under the same legislation and it was known . 
Mr. Speaker , as the hon. member knows , I had the opportunity to discuss the issue of hate propagated against gays and lesbians with my provincial and territorial colleagues last week . 
we have to fix up the problems in trade . 
i was referring to this very specific aspect . 
i want to commend the member for Charlesbourg who sponsored a private member ' s bill to get rid of thousand dollar bills , which are very popular among the drug trade . 
that is the approach we take in Canada . 
Mr. Speaker , the member is perfectly aware that , in my letter to the House leader of the Bloc Quebecois and in what I have said to others , I did not mention prohibiting travel to Quebec . 
gasoline ADDITIVES 
the throne speech was devoid of any recognition of the agricultural situation that we as Canadians now find ourselves in . 
i also acknowledge the presence in the gallery of the representative of the Turkish government at the embassy here and the charge d ' affaires of public affairs of the Republic of Armenia . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
but the government has nothing for these people . 
we heard other speakers this morning refer to the fact that other industries can claim tax deductibility on the equipment necessary to complete the job . 
i would like to say , though , that with 30,000 projects across the country with a variety of partners we should be looking at these things as the best efforts of groups of Canadians , whether they be business persons or non - profit organization members , to create economic activity . 
i know that the officials in my department do whatever they can to ensure that anyone who arrives at our ports of entry are treated as fairly as they can be . 
construction and maintenance jobs are created , businesses are contracted , property and income taxes are paid , and , most of all , some families have a chance to get on their feet and then move on to the private market . 
let us get that in the statute . 
the Speaker : 
how about the young mechanic who just finishes school and sets himself up in his mechanic practice ? 
Dr. David Zitner , Director of Medical Informatics at my former alma mater , Dalhousie University in Halifax , contacted me to speak specifically on this same point . 
if we get into members rising to ask if their votes be recorded , then the Chair will also insist that every member be in their place during the time of the vote . 
the Deputy Speaker : 
Mr. Richard M. Harris : 
a case in point is the transitional jobs fund for which the Liberals ' behaviour with just that one program should be evidence enough for them to be sent packing after the next election . 
as you can see , we did not idle , watching the train go by . 
the hon. member still has four minutes remaining , but in view of the fact that we will be welcoming new colleagues today I thought we might begin our Statements by Members a little sooner . 
the system offers some protection , since the warrant is issued by a judge who must ensure that the information required will be obtained by appropriate means . 
why do the rules that are imposed on every Canadian family not apply to the finance minister ' s own company ? 
senator Grafstein : 
Mrs. Christiane Gagnon 
profound congratulations are in order for the Minister of Finance . 
( 1 ) There shall be paid out of the Consoli - `` 
the third category is the recognition of victims rights . 
there may be different strategies for different countries . 
people might wonder what interest I could have in a treaty with aboriginal people on the west coast . 
Mr. Ghislain Lebel ( Chambly , BQ ) : 
i have often criticized that with the minister and the main provincial ministers as what I would call the " race for the natural resources '' . 
the next question is on Motion No. 294 . 
( division 61 ) 
some people gave up items during the debate and the negotiations and some people gained some . 
Mr. John Godfrey ( Don Valley West , Lib . ) : 
it drew on Canada ' s experience with our first Canadian Citizenship Act . 
that means that you are convinced that we , as a Parliament , have the authority to make that decision . 
in my view that would be a sophisticated solution . 
clearly clause 6 gives a lot of power to the minister . 
honourable senators , given these circumstances , and taking into account the principles that I have already explained in detail on the public record in the Senate on the very issue of the death penalty last spring , I cannot in good conscience vote in favour of clause 11 of Bill C - 4 which gives effect to the agreement for shared criminal jurisdiction on the civil international space station . 
in that instance we now realize that a treaty that was signed over 230 years ago has modern application and modern impact on the people of this country in 1999 . Therefore , it is not a great leap of faith to say that the Nisga ' a agreement that will be signed , ratified and passed through this House will certainly have the potential to affect future generations of Canadians and certainly the Nisga ' a people . 
since we are in the middle of the world series it is worth saying that prairie farmers are paraphrasing what Babe Ruth said about another program , that AIDA is not worth a cup of warm spit on the prairies . 
each case is assessed individually and all circumstances are examined and considered in a compassionate manner . 
yeas 
some hon. members : 
the Prime Minister ' s Office demanded funds for a fountain . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
they will not let this happen . 
Mr. Beno î t Sauvageau : 
for three weeks , beginning on December 3 , in words and pictures it has shown what it is like to face the holiday season with fear instead of joy , with despair instead of anticipation , with a tear instead of a smile . 
we need to confront questions of ethical standards . 
i said earlier that Bishop Wright got up in church and said that people would not fly . 
with 63,000 buildings and parcels of land the Government of Canada is the country ' s largest municipal property owner . 
honourable senators , if it is agreeable , I am prepared to proceed with my ruling now . 
national DEFENCE 
this is an issue that has been with us for time immemorial . 
there is a very telling chart which shows that , between 1991 and 1998 , for the United Kingdom , the United States , France and Canada , only Canada ' s investments in health research were lower than in 1991 . 
Mr. Ted McWhinney 
to mark this day , various federal departments have formed partnerships with agencies and representatives of people with disabilities . 
there are checks and balances between the ministries to ensure that the food provided to Canadians is safe . 
canada , my friends , is the right place to be . 
Mr. Speaker , on January 29 , a protocol on biosafety was adopted in Montreal . 
that , notwithstanding the Orders of the Senate adopted on Thursday , October 14 , 1999 , on Wednesday , November 17 , 1999 , and on Thursday , December 16 , 1999 , the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs which was authorized to examine and report upon the ramifications to Canada : 1 . of the changed mandate of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) and Canada ' s role in NATO since the demise of the Warsaw Pact , the end of the Cold War and the recent addition to membership in NATO of Hungary , Poland and the Czech Republic ; and 2 . of peacekeeping , with particular reference to Canada ' s ability to participate in it under the auspices of any international body of which Canada is a member , be empowered to present its final report no later than April 14 , 2000 ; and 
agreed . 
surely to God history has taught us the wrongs . 
if those members are going to say something , I wait excitedly for something valuable to come out of their mouths . 
a budget is a matter of government priorities , and we can see where the PQ ' s priorities lie . 
why will the government not take the crisis seriously and immediately implement short term solutions that would at least see all fishers respect pre - established fishing seasons in the name of conservation ? 
the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs . 
human RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 
about 99 % of the treaties made by Canada since the war are non - self - executing . 
if anybody had any doubt on this particular point and to make assurance doubly sure , the government caucus from B.C. , the senators and the MPs sought assurances from the then minister for aboriginal affairs and her parliamentary secretary that we would put this beyond any question by even the most unreasonable of people . 
bill C - 10 still provides for ministerial discretion as to whether or not payments will be made by the government and there is no binding means of recourse in the event of a dispute . 
library of Parliament Official Languages Scrutiny of Regulations 
here in Ottawa the facilities are all in place . 
division No. 73 
besides Ms Duffy , candidates making it onto the agency ' s list included Seamus Heaney , Derek Walcott , Wendy Cope , Benjamin Zephaniah , James Fenton , Tom Paulin and Geoffrey Hill . 
yeas 
the only public scrutiny of this agency would take place at a committee and it probably will not happen . 
motion No. 5 
what did the decision say ? 
Mr. John Solomon 
we must raise public awareness . 
our party has always sided with history on nation building from Macdonald to Clark . 
Mr. Speaker , for the past six years , the federal government has invested nothing in the construction of social housing in Quebec , although the government of Quebec and social coalitions have been calling upon it to reinvest in this sector . 
that means access to capital at the most aggressive financing rates possible . 
Mr. Hec Clouthier : 
Mr. Jim Pankiw : 
two years ago , we listened to words of despair from students , educators and researchers about the state of education in Canada . 
second reading 
in terms of Canada ' s youth our goal is to give the youth generation of Canada , no matter where they live , a shot at personal success in the knowledge economy , a job with the future that pays well and an opportunity at becoming the best and the brightest there are . 
Nisga ' a Final Agreement Act 
is that agreed ? 
there is similar legislation in British Columbia where individuals who are in a same sex relationship are able by law to adopt children . 
where is the money going ? 
the Nisga ' a treaty is affordable . 
it means that I can go , maybe with some of my friends , up to the space station if I happen to be selected and trained . 
( the House adjourned at 7.57 p.m. ) 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
and you didn ' t need to look much further than the hearings that several of you were involved with , just last week , the federal standing committee that travelled to this province , largely because I think of the efforts of several of your caucus members . 
even the Bloc ' s intergovernmental affairs critic and his leader have agreed with that . 
clearly , a strong federal commitment of resources is necessary . 
they rested so peacefully with the opium of the present government that the yes side ended up with 49.4 % of the vote . 
* * * 
members will agree is a very , very tough one . 
let us have some answers . 
division No. 649 
it is fortunate that none really went off the rails . 
at the bottom line it has been shown very often that these numerous boards the government has set up have simply been places for friends of the Liberal Party to spend the rest of their days in relatively nice comfort . 
we are not saying that the Young Offenders Act should be left alone because it is the best act in the world . 
recently , I had the opportunity to meet retirees . 
Mr. Speaker , we are again debating Bill C - 6 or rather the amendments by the Senate . 
in this case any extra money flowing out of the treasury to cover the cost of extended benefits would be recouped by the added money that would come in on the revenue side . 
it is trying to give its bill precedence over Quebec ' s legislation , which is considered as a model all over the world . 
if we were to operate indefinitely by invoking the notwithstanding clause every time certain interests suggest we should , we would end up undoubtedly questioning the legitimacy of the charter which guarantees the rights we hold very close as a democratic society and as citizens of Canada . 
to deduce that allowing anyone else to speak to an inquiry about which we know nothing has the effect of saving a day or bringing the item back to square one is a dangerous precedent to set . 
members 
i am aware that discussions have taken place between various parties , notably the groups proposing an institution , to remember the Holocaust and others in an appropriate forum . 
an hon. member : 
last year , when the bank mergers were being debated , the government used excessive concentration as justification for the 10 % rule on bank ownership , citing public interest . 
at the same time , it does not require a further draw on the treasury of the Government of Canada . 
of course , we support what Motion M - 30 proposes , as we did before the last session was prorogued . 
i am pleased as well that the reconvening of parliament and the gathering of members of parliament back to this place will allow us to continue the debate of the Liberal government ' s youth criminal justice act , now known as Bill C - 3 , formerly Bill C - 68 , which was another poorly put together bill . 
i would not want to suggest that they go from father to son because that is not always the way it is done in native Indian culture . 
Mrs. Maud Debien 
we are applying the law off this planet for the first time ever . 
paired 
yeas 
our young researchers will seek out the top opportunities for work and they will choose Canada , both our young researchers in Canada as well as those from elsewhere . 
( division 188 ) 
Mr. Speaker , it is a broken system . 
i am sure all of us recognize that flying goes beyond that . 
i am committed to discussing that goal , not only with provincial and territorial governments but with NGOs and Canadians because we recognize the importance of immigration to the country . 
Ms. H é l è ne Alarie 
millions of dollars have been swallowed up in Quebec and in Canada by these constitutional quarrels . 
things could be done to speed up the process and ensure that people are getting justice . 
hon. Lyle Vanclief ( Minister of Agriculture and Agri - Food , Lib . ) : 
however , that statistical information was not conveyed to those who came asking for help . 
motion No. 384 negatived 
i declare Motion No. 64 lost . 
Mr. Speaker , as I indicated yesterday , the director of CSIS , Mr. Elcock , informed me . 
so through you , Mr. Speaker , I will put the question to the Minister of Finance . 
motion No. 241 
there is the situation of the triad leader I mentioned who was turned down in Hong Kong and got in through the L . A . office . 
Mr. John Cannis ( Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Industry , Lib . ) : 
i declare Motion No. 172 lost . 
paired 
she ended up going into the hospital because she broke her pelvis in two places . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
that is a typical example of what is happening to British Columbians on this issue . 
do hon. members realize that taxes are embedded in just about every input they can think of ? 
i wanted to put it forward . 
this is the first time a NAFTA Chapter 11 investor - state tribunal has made a final award . 
Mr. Speaker , the farm income crisis rages on while the government looks for bureaucratic ways to fiddle with its wounded AIDA program . 
this month is Black History Month . 
following a redesign of the space station in 1993 , the partners formally invited Russia to join the partnership , in what became a truly International Space Station . 
Mr. Svend J . Robinson ( Burnaby - Douglas , NDP ) : 
the details of the situation he discussed are not nearly as important as the principle of whether Canada is going to have the democratic right and the freedom to protect our own interests and our own rights as we see them as a sovereign nation . 
it , too , relates to the fundamental principle on which I think the honourable senator takes objection to the role of the Senate . 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
that is what they do not like . 
shortly thereafter , the outspoken Senator McElman of New Brunswick advised me that the heart of the Senate was the work of its committees . 
your Committee , which was authorized by the Senate on Wednesday , December 1 , 1999 , to examine such issues as may arise from time to time relating to energy , the environment , and natural resources , respectfully requests that it be empowered to engage the services of such counsel and technical , clerical , and other personnel as may be necessary , and to adjourn from place to place within and outside Canada for the purpose of such studies . 
it is easy for us to understand them . 
let us face it , first we took away employment insurance benefits , which directly affected small rural communities . 
a negative vote on Motion No. 25 requires the question to be put on Motion No. 26 . 
the honourable senator said he would like a tough and clear question such as : " Do you want Quebec to become a country , yes or no ? " 
right Hon. Jean Chr é tien 
they could not go to a place where the Liberal Party would support a big convention of native leaders , where it would cost thousands of dollars to rent a hall with fine food and fair drink . 
we need a national shipbuilding policy : 
hon. Ethel Cochrane : 
( division 317 ) 
senator Nolin : 
he continues : 
resumption OF DEBATE ON ADDRESS IN REPLY 
bill C - 350 . 
they are not listening to the grassroots people and they are not exercising their fiduciary responsibility to us . 
it is time that the rhetoric stopped . 
i am happy to say it will be brought before the Senate next week . 
the Acting Speaker ( Mr. McClelland ) : 
the member termed my remarks as slamming the PCs . 
for example , all people have an equal right to compete for high office ; freedom of speech is one of our most sacred rights , and freedom of association must not be unduly infringed upon . 
i do not know what excuse one could come up with for not having a process that includes everybody . 
therefore , we are stretched with our resources . 
they will sort out what they believe , who is putting credible arguments forward and who is putting a balanced position forward . 